The visible part of the human nose is the protruding part of the face that bears the nostrils. The shape of the nose is determined by the nasal bones and the nasal cartilages, including the septal cartilage (which separates the nostrils) and the upper and lower lateral cartilages. On average the nose of a male is larger than that of a female.[1]
The nose has an area of specialised cells which are responsible for smelling (part of the olfactory system). Another function of the nose is the conditioning of inhaled air, warming it and making it more humid. Hairs inside the nose prevent large particles from entering the lungs. Sneezing is usually caused by foreign particles irritating the nasal mucosa, but can more rarely be caused by sudden exposure to bright light (called the photic sneeze reflex) or touching the external auditory canal. Sneezing can transmit infections, because it creates aerosols in which the droplets can harbour microbes.


The nasal root is the top of the nose, forming an indentation at the suture where the nasal bones meet the frontal bone. The anterior nasal spine is the thin projection of bone at the midline on the lower nasal margin, holding the cartilaginous center of the nose.[2] Adult humans have nasal hairs in the anterior nasal passage.
One of the most common medical conditions involving the nose are nosebleeds (in medicine: epistaxis). Most of them occur in Kiesselbach's area (synonym: Little's area). Nasal congestion is a common symptom of infections or other inflammations of the nasal lining (rhinitis), such as in allergic rhinitis or vasomotor rhinitis (resulting from nasal spray abuse). Most of these conditions also cause anosmia, which is the medical term for a loss of smell. This may also occur in other conditions, for example following trauma, in Kallmann syndrome or Parkinson's disease.
The nose is a common site of foreign bodies. The nose is susceptible to frostbite. Nasal flaring is a sign of respiratory distress that involves widening of the nostrils on inspiration.
Because of the special nature of the blood supply to the human nose and surrounding area, it is possible for retrograde infections from the nasal area to spread to the brain. For this reason, the area from the corners of the mouth to the bridge of the nose, including the nose and maxilla, is known to doctors as the danger triangle of the face.
Specific systemic diseases, infections or other conditions that may result in destruction of part of the nose (for example, the nasal bridge, or nasal septal perforation) are rhinophyma, skin cancer (for example, basal cell carcinoma), granulomatosis with polyangiitis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, tuberculosis, syphilis, leprosy and exposure to cocaine, chromium or toxins. The nose may be stimulated to grow in acromegaly.
Some people choose to get rhinoplasty to change the aesthetic appearance of their nose. Nose piercings are also common, such as nostril, septum or bridge.
In New Zealand, nose pressing ("hongi") is a traditional greeting originating among the Māori people.[3] However it is now generally confined to certain traditional celebrations.[4]
The Hanazuka monument enshrines the mutilated noses of at least 38,000 Koreans killed during the Japanese invasions of Korea from 1592 to 1598.[5]
The septal cartilage of the nose can be destroyed through repeated nasal inhalation of drugs such as cocaine. This in turn can lead to more widespread collapse of the nasal skeleton.
Nose-picking is a common, mildly taboo habit. Medical risks include the spread of infections, nosebleeds and, rarely, self-induced perforation of the nasal septum. The wiping of the nose with the hand, commonly referred to as the "allergic salute", is also mildly taboo and can result in the spreading of infections as well. Habitual as well as fast or rough nose wiping may also result in a crease (known as a transverse nasal crease or groove) running across the nose, and can lead to permanent physical deformity observable in childhood and adulthood.[6][7]
Nose fetishism (or nasophilia) is the sexual fetish (or paraphilia) for the nose. The psychiatric condition of extreme nose picking is termed rhinotillexomania.
In certain Asian countries such as China, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand and Bangladesh rhinoplasty is common to create a more developed nose bridge or "high nose".[8][9][10] Similarly, "DIY nose lifts" in the form of re-usable cosmetic items have become popular and are sold in many Asian countries such as China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Sri Lanka and Thailand.[11][12][13] A high-bridged nose has been a common beauty ideal in many Asian cultures dating back to the beauty ideals of ancient China and India.[14][15]
Clive Finlayson of the Gibraltar Museum said the large Neanderthal noses were an adaption to the cold,[16] Todd C. Rae of the American Museum of Natural History said primate and arctic animal studies have shown sinus size reduction in areas of extreme cold rather than enlargement in accordance with Allen's rule.[17] Therefore, Todd C. Rae concludes that the design of the large and prognathic Neanderthal nose was evolved for the hotter climate of the Middle East and was kept when the Neanderthals entered Europe.[17]
Miquel Hernández of the Department of Animal Biology at the University of Barcelona said the "high and narrow nose of Eskimos" and "Neanderthals" is an "adaption to a cold and dry environment", since it contributes to warming and moisturizing the air and the "recovery of heat and moisture from expired air".[18]
An article published in the speculative journal Medical Hypotheses suggested that the nose is an alteration of the angle of skull following human skeletal changes due to bipedalism. This changed the shape of the skull base causing, together with change in diet, a knock-on morphological reduction in the relative size of the maxillary and mandible and through this a "squeezing" of the protrusion of the most anterior parts of the face more forward and so increasing nose prominence and modifying its shape.[19]
The aquatic ape hypothesis relates the nose to a hypothesized period of aquatic adaptation in which the downward-facing nostrils and flexible philtrum prevented water from entering the nasal cavities.[20] The theory is not generally accepted by mainstream scholars of human evolution.[21]
Stephen Jay Gould has noted that larger noses are less neotenous, especially the large "Grecian" nose.[22] Women have smaller noses than men due to not having increased secretion of testosterone in adolescence.[1] Smaller noses, along with other neotenous features such as large eyes and full lips, are generally considered more attractive on women.[23] Werner syndrome, a condition that causes the appearance of premature aging, causes a "bird-like" appearance due to pinching of the nose[24] while, conversely, Down syndrome, a neotenizing condition,[25] causes flattening of the nose.[26] However, it looks more youthful and attractive.
nose extends unittest to make testing easier.
Nose has been in maintenance mode for the past several years and will likely cease without a new person/team to take over maintainership. New projects should consider using Nose2, py.test, or just plain unittest/unittest2.
On most UNIX-like systems, you’ll probably need to run these commands as root or using sudo.
Install nose using setuptools/distribute:
Or pip:
Or, if you don’t have setuptools/distribute installed, use the download link at right to download the source package, and install it in the normal fashion: Ungzip and untar the source package, cd to the new directory, and:
However, please note that without setuptools/distribute installed, you will not be able to use third-party nose plugins.
This will install the nose libraries, as well as the nosetests script, which you can use to automatically discover and run tests.
Now you can run tests for your project:
You should see output something like this:
Indicating that nose found and ran your tests.
For help with nosetests’ many command-line options, try:
or visit the usage documentation.
nose supports python3. Building from source on python3 requires distribute. If you don’t have distribute installed, python3 setup.py install will install it via distribute’s bootstrap script.
Additionally, if your project is using 2to3, python3 setup.py nosetests command will automatically convert your sources with 2to3 and then run the tests with python 3.
Warning
nose itself supports python 3, but many 3rd-party plugins do not!
Find out how to write, find and run tests using nose. More >
Find out how to write your own plugins, and about nose internals. More >
What's new in this release? More >
Plugin recipes and usage examples, trivia and other uncategorizable items. More >
Testing with nose
Nose, the prominent structure between the eyes that serves as the entrance to the respiratory tract and contains the olfactory organ. It provides air for respiration, serves the sense of smell, conditions the air by filtering, warming, and moistening it, and cleans itself of foreign debris extracted from inhalations.
The nose has two cavities, separated from one another by a wall of cartilage called the septum. The external openings are known as nares or nostrils. The roof of the mouth and the floor of the nose are formed by the palatine bone, the mouth part of which is commonly called the hard palate; a flap of tissue, the soft palate, extends back into the nasopharynx, the nasal portion of the throat, and during swallowing is pressed upward, thus closing off the nasopharynx so that food is not lodged in the back of the nose.
The shape of the nasal cavity is complex. The forward section, within and above each nostril, is called the vestibule. Behind the vestibule and along each outer wall are three elevations, running generally from front to rear. Each elevation, called a nasal concha or turbinate, hangs over an air passage. Beside and above the uppermost concha is the olfactory region of the nasal cavity. The rest of the cavity is the respiratory portion. The respiratory area is lined with a moist mucous membrane with fine hairlike projections known as cilia, which serve to collect debris. Mucus from cells in the membrane wall also helps to trap particles of dust, carbon, soot, and bacteria. Sinus cavities are located in the bony skull on both sides of the nose.
In the olfactory (smelling) portion of the nose, most of the lining is mucous membrane. A small segment of the lining contains the nerve cells that are the actual sensory organs. Fibres, called dendrites, which project from the nerve cells into the nasal cavity, are covered only by a thin layer of moisture. The moisture dissolves microscopic particles that the air has carried into the nose from odour-emitting substances, and the particles dissolved in the fluid stimulate the olfactory nerve cells chemically.
We welcome suggested improvements to any of our articles. You can make it easier for us to review and, hopefully, publish your contribution by keeping a few points in mind.
Your contribution may be further edited by our staff, and its publication is subject to our final approval. Unfortunately, our editorial approach may not be able to accommodate all contributions.
Our editors will review what you've submitted, and if it meets our criteria, we'll add it to the article.
Please note that our editors may make some formatting changes or correct spelling or grammatical errors, and may also contact you if any clarifications are needed.
There was a problem with your submission. Please try again later.
Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article.
Anatomically, a nose is a protuberance in vertebrates that houses the nostrils, or nares, which receive and expel air for respiration alongside the mouth. Behind the nose are the olfactory mucosa and the sinuses. Behind the nasal cavity, air next passes through the pharynx, shared with the digestive system, and then into the rest of the respiratory system. In humans, the nose is located centrally on the face and serves as an alternative respiratory passage especially during suckling for infants. On most other mammals, it is located on the upper tip of the snout.[citation needed]


Acting as the first interface between the external environment and an animal's delicate internal lungs, a nose conditions incoming air, both as a function of thermal regulation and filtration during respiration, as well as enabling the sensory perception of smell.
Hair inside nostrils filter incoming air, as a first line of defense against dust particles, smoke, and other potential obstructions that would otherwise inhibit respiration, and as a kind of filter against airborne illness. In addition to acting as a filter, mucus produced within the nose supplements the body's effort to maintain temperature, as well as contributes moisture to integral components of the respiratory system. Capillary structures of the nose warm and humidify air entering the body; later, this role in retaining moisture enables conditions for alveoli to properly exchange O2 for CO2 (i.e., respiration) within the lungs. During exhalation, the capillaries then aid recovery of some moisture, mostly as a function of thermal regulation, again.
The wet nose of dogs is useful for the perception of direction. The sensitive cold receptors in the skin detect the place where the nose is cooled the most and this is the direction a particular smell that the animal just picked up comes from.[1]
In amphibians and lungfish, the nostrils open into small sacs that, in turn, open into the forward roof of the mouth through the choanae. These sacs contain a small amount of olfactory epithelium, which, in the case of caecilians, also lines a number of neighbouring tentacles. Despite the general similarity in structure to those of amphibians, the nostrils of lungfish are not used in respiration, since these animals breathe through their mouths. Amphibians also have a vomeronasal organ, lined by olfactory epithelium, but, unlike those of amniotes, this is generally a simple sac that, except in salamanders, has little connection with the rest of the nasal system.[2]
In reptiles, the nasal chamber is generally larger, with the choanae located much further back in the roof of the mouth. In crocodilians, the chamber is exceptionally long, helping the animal to breathe while partially submerged. The reptilian nasal chamber is divided into three parts: an anterior vestibule, the main olfactory chamber, and a posterior nasopharynx. The olfactory chamber is lined by olfactory epithelium on its upper surface and possesses a number of turbinates to increase the sensory area. The vomeronasal organ is well-developed in lizards and snakes, in which it no longer connects with the nasal cavity, opening directly into the roof of the mouth. It is smaller in turtles, in which it retains its original nasal connection, and is absent in adult crocodilians.[2]
Birds have a similar nose to reptiles, with the nostrils located at the upper rear part of the beak. Since they generally have a poor sense of smell, the olfactory chamber is small, although it does contain three turbinates, which sometimes have a complex structure similar to that of mammals. In many birds, including doves and fowls, the nostrils are covered by a horny protective shield. The vomeronasal organ of birds is either under-developed or altogether absent, depending on the species.[2]
The nasal cavities in mammals are both fused into one. Among most species they are exceptionally large, typically occupying up to half the length of the skull. In some groups, however, including primates, bats, and cetaceans, the nose has been secondarily reduced, and these animals consequently have a relatively poor sense of smell. The nasal cavity of mammals has been enlarged, in part, by the development of a palate cutting off the entire upper surface of the original oral cavity, which consequently becomes part of the nose, leaving the palate as the new roof of the mouth. The enlarged nasal cavity contains complex turbinates forming coiled scroll-like shapes that help to warm the air before it reaches the lungs. The cavity also extends into neighbouring skull bones, forming additional air cavities known as paranasal sinuses.[2]
In cetaceans, the nose has been reduced to the nostrils, which have migrated to the top of the head, producing a more streamlined body shape and the ability to breathe while mostly submerged. Conversely, the elephant's nose has elaborated into a long, muscular, manipulative organ called the trunk.
The vomeronasal organ of mammals is generally similar to that of reptiles. In most species, it is located in the floor of the nasal cavity, and opens into the mouth via two nasopalatine ducts running through the palate, but it opens directly into the nose in many rodents. It is, however, lost in bats, and in many primates, including humans.[2]
Fish generally have a weak sense of smell, which is generally less important than taste in an aquatic environment. They do, however, possess a nose. Unlike that of tetrapods, the nose has no connection with the mouth, nor any role in respiration. Instead, it generally consists of a pair of small pouches located behind the nostrils at the front or sides of the head. In many cases, each of the nostrils is divided into two by a fold of skin, allowing water to flow into the nose through one side and out through the other.[2]
The pouches are lined by olfactory epithelium, and commonly include a series of internal folds to increase the surface area. In some teleosts, the pouches branch off into additional sinus-like cavities, while in coelacanths, they form a series of tubes. Unlike tetrapods, the nasal epithelium of fishes does not include any mucus-secreting cells, since it is already naturally moist.[2]
In the most primitive living vertebrates, the lampreys and hagfish, there is only one nostril and olfactory pouch. Indeed, the nostril also opens into the hypophysis. This is not necessarily, however, a primitive trait, but one that may have arisen later in the evolution of these particular groups. For example, the fossil heterostracans had paired nostrils, and these were also a very early vertebrate group.[2]
We recommend upgrading to the latest Google Chrome or Firefox.
GitHub is home to over 20 million developers working together to host and review code, manage projects, and build software together.
Sign up
Use Git or checkout with SVN using the web URL.
If nothing happens, download GitHub Desktop and try again.
Go back
If nothing happens, download GitHub Desktop and try again.
Go back
If nothing happens, download Xcode and try again.
Go back
If nothing happens, download the GitHub extension for Visual Studio and try again.
Go back
Madeleine Schwartz

Whatever happened to the nose job? The post-op bandages used to be everywhere, little white flags of surrender to conformity. Rachel from Friends had one written into her past (to make her more relatable, a show writer said), and George’s girlfriend on Seinfeld went under the knife to please him. But noses are making a comeback, with rhinoplasty down 43% since 2000, according to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Is it the financial crisis? Is it the ghastly parade of celebrity cosmetic surgery gone wrong?
American women no longer wish for noses that remind them of “piglets and kittens,” as Diana Vreeland once said. They’d rather flare their nostrils than fit in. Over the past decade, beauty trends have moved toward a slippery definition of natural beauty and self-acceptance, granting us the serenity to accept the things we cannot change and the courage to change the things we can with endless hours at the gym.
The modern nose job was born in the 1920s. Art collector Peggy Guggenheim had one of the first, and it was said that her new nose would swell and shrink according to the weather. Nose jobs became a rite of passage among Jewish girls: “You had your bat mitzvah and you got your nose done,” a plastic surgeon told the New York Times in 1999. Any woman with a nose bigger than a button might be pressured to get it lopped off. Even Sophia Loren was threatened with a nasal updo when she moved to Hollywood. She refused. “They were saying that my nose was too long and my mouth was too big. It didn’t hurt me at all because when I believe in something, it’s like war,” Loren told the Hollywood Reporter. Things were different in ancient times. As the 17th-century French philosopher Blaise Pascal remarked, “If Cleopatra’s nose had been shorter, the whole face of the world would have been different.”
The smell of change is once again in the air. Hollywood starlets have begun apologizing for their rhinoplasties. (Who knew so many actresses had sinus problems that required surgery?) An imperfect nose has become a badge of artistic gravitas: sweet-faced Nicole Kidman and Charlize Theron might not have won their Oscars without prosthetics — temporary nose jobs in reverse.
Historians of the nose job (they exist!) point to the slump in surgeries as a sign of the growing acceptance of diversity. You no longer need a small nose to make it big in America. With this comes the whiff of another advance: the realization that there’s beauty in difference. While every perfect nose is the same, at least within its category —like “Barbie,” “Aquiline,” or “Duchess” — every imperfect nose has its own mesmerizing flaws. It’s a pleasure to notice the bump that makes one woman friend look experienced and thoughtful, the proud beak that gives another an air of perfectly pronounced judgment.
A good nose is like a horn announcing one’s entry into battle. A bold lip or thick liner projects sexy aggression, but by the end of the day it wears off. Could Marina Abramović have spent 736 hours looking at visitors at MoMA if she didn’t have such a magnificent schnoz to guide her gaze? A face with an uncommon nose is a face to be reckoned with, a profile worthy of an ancient coin. And that’s nothing to sniff at.
A version of this story first appeared in GARAGE No. 14, available to buy here.
Subscribe to GARAGE.
I will not Instagram any more boring art.
follow Dictionary.com
I will turn my nose up when you offer me the rest of some delicious pastry that you nibbled on.
They should have pointed the nose of the Airbus down and applied more power.
A spandex mask stretched over his face, covering his eyes and nose.
Also, your nose is in front of your face and the sun will come up tomorrow.
With a nose for bogus facts, Johnson sets out to break the Internet by breaking news.
I'm sure that when I wrote these lines, fortune had for a moment tweaked me by the nose.
She merely turned her head and rubbed his knee with her nose.
The teacher sunk into a chair, and put his spectacles on his nose.
You're right, though,' says he, and with that he tries to put a twister on Diablo's nose.
You ought to know; you had to pay through the nose for shuttin' his mouth.
Old English nosu, from Proto-Germanic *nusus (cf. Old Norse nös, Old Frisian nose, Dutch neus, Old High German nasa, German Nase), from PIE *nas- "nose" (cf. Sanskrit nasa, Old Persian naham, Old Church Slavonic nasu, Lithuanian nosis, Latin nasus "nose"). Used of any prominent or projecting part from 1530s. (nose cone in the space rocket sense is from 1949). Used to indicate "something obvious" from 1590s. Meaning "odor, scent" is from 1894.

"perceive the smell of," 1570s; "pry, search," 1640s, from nose (n.). Related: Nosed; nosing.
nose (nōz) n. The part of the human face or the forward part of the head of other vertebrates that contains the nostrils and organs of smell and forms the beginning of the respiratory tract.
noun
A police informer; stool pigeon (1830+ Underworld)
Related Terms
bluenose, by a nose, dog's-nose, hard-nosed, have a bug up one's ass, keep one's nose clean, look down one's nose, no skin off my ass, on the nose, pay through the nose, poke one's nose into something,powder one's nose, put someone's nose out of joint
Gain access to thousands of additional definitions and advanced search features—ad free! JOIN NOW
An Encyclopædia Britannica Company
pansexual 'sexual desire or attraction...not limited to a particular gender identity or sexual orientation'
symbiote 'an organism living in symbiosis'
charlatan 'faker or fraud'
lowlife 'a person of low moral character'
kakistocracy 'government by the worst people'

See nose defined for English-language learners
See nose defined for kids
The ball hit me right on the nose.
You need to wipe your nose.
I have a runny nose.
the long nose of the anteater
He got some water up his nose.
She wrinkled her nose in disgust.
That dog has a good nose.
The whale measures 40 feet from nose to tail.

These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'nose.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.


First Known Use: before 12th century
in the meaning defined at sense 1a
apex, cusp, end, nib, pike, point, tip;
pinpoint;
prong, tine;
barb, jag, prickle, snag, spike, sticker;
See nose defined for English-language learners
The horse nosed my hand.
Some animal must have nosed the lid off the garbage can.
The dog nosed the door open.
The dogs were nosing around in the garbage.
The boat nosed around the bend.
I nosed my car into the parking space.
The car nosed its way into the street.

These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'nose.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.
1577
in the meaning defined at transitive sense 1
crawl, creak (along), creep, drag, inch, limp, ooze, plod, poke, slouch;
fly, race, speed, whiz (or whizz), zip;
float, glide, sail;
hurry, tear;
lumber, shamble, shuffle, tramp, trudge;
: the part of the face or head through which a person or animal smells and breathes
: the ability to smell things : the sense of smell
: the front end or part of something
: to push or move (something) with the nose
of an animal : to search for or find something by smelling
: to move forward slowly or carefully

See words that rhyme with nose Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for nose Spanish Central: Translation of nose Nglish: Translation of nose for Spanish speakers Britannica English: Translation of nose for Arabic speakers Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about nose
What made you want to look up nose? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible).
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
something intensely disliked or loathed
Get Word of the Day daily email!
pansexual 'sexual desire or attraction...not limited to a particular gender identity or sexual orientation'
symbiote 'an organism living in symbiosis'
charlatan 'faker or fraud'
lowlife 'a person of low moral character'
kakistocracy 'government by the worst people'
April 2018 Words of the Day Quiz
Can you spell these 10 commonly misspelled words?
Test Your Knowledge - and learn some interesting things along the way.
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
Words for having a bun in the oven
The idiom goes back centuries
It's both, and here's why.
This is kind of a Big Deal
How we chose 'feminism'
Or, Why Pig Meat is Called 'Pork' and Cow Meat is Called 'Beef'
How to use a word that (literally) drives some people nuts.
The awkward case of 'his or her'
The rhyming verb edition.
Test your knowledge of strange human behaviors.
Can you spell these 10 commonly misspelled words?
SCRABBLE® fans, sharpen your skills!
Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox!
OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES
FOLLOW US
© 2018 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated


From Middle English nose, from Old English nosu, from Proto-Germanic *nusō (compare Saterland Frisian Noose, West Frisian noas, Dutch neus, Swedish nos, Norwegian nos (“snout”), variant of *nasō (compare German Low German Nees, Nes, Näs, German Nase, Swedish näsa, Norwegian nese (“nose”)), old dual from Proto-Indo-European *néh₂s- ~ *nh₂es- ‘nose, nostril’ (compare Latin nāris (“nostril”), nāsus (“nose”), Lithuanian nósis, Russian нос (nos), Sanskrit नासा (nā́sā, “nostrils”)).
nose (plural noses)
nose (third-person singular simple present noses, present participle nosing, simple past and past participle nosed)
nose
nose
From Old English nosu, from Proto-Germanic *nusō, old dual from Proto-Indo-European *néh₂s- (“nose, nostril”).
nose (plural noses or nosen)
From Old French nos.
nose (plural noses)
nose
nose
