About Earthworms
Google Scholar Search Results


Abstract

Earthworms are responsible for soil development, recycling organic matter and form a vital component within many food webs. For these and other reasons earthworms are worthy of investigation. Many technologically-enhanced approaches have been used within earthworm-focused research. These have their place, may be a development of existing practices or bring techniques from other fields. Nevertheless, let us not overlook the fact that much can still be learned through utilisation of more basic approaches which have been used for some time. New does not always equate to better. Information on community composition within an area and specific population densities can be learned using simple collection techniques, and burrowing behaviour can be determined from pits, resin-insertion or simple mesocosms. Life history studies can be achieved through maintenance of relatively simple cultures. Behavioural observations can be undertaken by direct observation or with low cost webcam usage. Applied aspects of earthworm research can also be achieved through use of simple techniques to enhance population development and even population dynamics can be directly addressed with use of relatively inexpensive, effective marking techniques. This paper seeks to demonstrate that good quality research in this sphere can result from appropriate application of relatively simple research tools.
1. Introduction

There is no need to make a case for studying earthworms, as their role within the soil has been recognized for more than a century. Collectively, these organisms are able to pass vast quantities of soil through their guts and by doing so bring about the creation of an improved crumb structure which incorporates mineral and organic elements and can become a seedbed for plant growth. In addition, earthworms may aerate soils and increase water infiltration, hence reducing soil erosion, by burrow creation. On top of all this some species are more highly regarded as they are attributed with ecosystem engineering capabilities; that is, they are able to directly influence the environment around themselves and the availability of resources to other organisms.

Many avenues of research are available and this article could very easily seek to review and critique some of the more advanced techniques currently in use within the sphere of earthworm ecology. These might include DNA-related work examining the genome of selected species; ecotoxicology, following the accumulation of, for example, heavy metals in the tissues of earthworms on contaminated land; or, for example, isotopic work, looking at the transfer of radio-labelled elements through earthworm-linked food chains. However, such relatively high-tech methods will not be the focus of this work, which seeks to generally avoid reliance upon potentially costly and high-maintenance equipment. This article actually aims at doing one thing; it seeks to show that the use of low-technology methods is still able to gain insights into fundamental questions relating to earthworms. Much is still to be fully understood about this group, and although many advances have recently been made using sophisticated, expensive equipment/techniques, there is still room for the under-resourced professional or educated amateur to make a serious contribution. To demonstrate this, the article focuses on the following: a description of simple collection techniques, which can assist in revealing a great deal of earthworm community structure, followed by investigation of a major earthworm activity - burrowing and then a close inspection of earthworm life history and behaviours. Each aspect will hopefully show that basic techniques exist within earthworm ecology that can reveal previously unknown information and assist in building a more comprehensive picture of this important animal group.
2. Collection Techniques (First Catch Your Earthworm)

It is often desirable to quantify earthworm number or biomass in a given habitat and/or seek to collect them. A few species show their presence by surface casting (e.g., Aporrectodea longa) or creation of middens (e.g., Lumbricus terrestris) but most require some form of intervention to locate them, due to their totally subterranean existence. To this end, various techniques have been developed to enable earthworm collection. Digging is the simplest, as it requires only a spade and perhaps a quadrat for density calculations but may detect only near surface (epigeic) earthworms and horizontal burrowing (endogeic) species. Adults of deeper burrowing (anecic) species may be missed unless the researcher is prepared to dig a hole to a depth of several metres!

An alternative to digging is the application of a vermifuge (expellent), which when poured on to the soil drives earthworms to the surface as it acts as a skin irritant when contacted in their burrows (direct application, e.g., via a syringe to L. terrestris burrows may be very effective). Various chemicals have been used, with a dilute solution of formaldehyde (formalin) currently recognized as a standard, but as this has been reported as carcinogenic, further options have been sought. It is also suggested that there are severe negative effects to other soil fauna, soil respiration, and vegetation cover if formaldehyde is applied. A suspension of table mustard in water has been used, but tests have shown that a suspension of mustard powder (e.g., 50?g in 10?litres water) is both cheaper and more effective. More recently use of "hot" mustard has been used to give a more consistent index of earthworm abundance across a range of soil types. As the type of mustard may also affect results, an extract derived from mustard seed Allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) has been used for earthworm collection. AITC has recently been shown as a reliable and promising chemical expellant whether or not used in combination with hand-sorting. Many researchers now advocate that the most effective collection technique is indeed a combination of digging and hand-sorting of soil (deposited e.g., on a plastic sheet in the field) followed by application of a vermifuge to the hole created [10, 20]. Different techniques have in the past given rise to differential collection of species and provided results which are not directly comparable. By contrast, Table 1 provides recent examples of data relating to earthworm density, biomass, and community structure from a variety of British habitats using the same combination of digging and mustard application for collection.
tab1
Table 1: Recent British examples of earthworm density/biomass/community structure from sampling with the same techniques (digging and application of a mustard vermifuge).

Another collection method is application of an electrical current to the soil. This method is attractive as little or no damage is done to the area sampled and only fallen leaves and overgrown vegetation need be removed prior to sampling to assist earthworm detection. To date only limited work has been undertaken with this method, specifically in agricultural soils possibly because equipment is expensive as an extraction unit to sample 0.2? at a time will cost (at 2009 prices) in excess of $3000.

Having determined which earthworms are present in a given habitat, if desired, it is then possible to experimentally manipulate the earthworms themselves or resources, such as food, in the habitat. Several studies have used field enclosures to investigate the effects of earthworms on soil properties and plants [22, 23]. Such enclosures can be formed with PVC walls, buried in slit trenches to a depth of up to 45?cm and a height of 15?cm above the soil surface. These have been shown to act as effective barriers to lateral earthworm movements. Results have suggested that both earthworm removal and addition of field-collected earthworms within enclosures can be an effective and useful approach for assessing the influence of earthworms on ecosystem processes (see Figure 1).
562816.fig.001
Figure 1: Earthworm enclosures (1? ) used for manipulating density of Lumbricus terrestris in managed woodland (earthworms added to enclosure in foreground).

Associated with earthworm enclosures is a novel method ("tunnel" trapping) that can be used to observe and record emigration of earthworms. Trap units can be combined with earthworm fencing in the field, or with mesocosms in laboratory experiments allowing examination of emigration rates, while manipulating biotic and abiotic factors (e.g., population density, community structure, predation, resources availability, temperature, precipitation).

Tunnel traps can be prepared using 1?litre plastic pots with mounted needle-perforated lids. Holes ( ?mm) drilled in these smaller "capture pots" just below the lid allow insertion of PVC tubing (10?mm ID, 5?cm long) to connect to either earthworm fencing in field enclosures or larger soil-filled mesocosms. Surface migrating species can move from enclosures/mesocosms into traps via the tubing that is aligned at the soil surface (Figure 2). Movement of captured individuals back into containers is prevented by filling capture pots with soil or other suitable medium to half of their total volume. Providing acceptable conditions (e.g., soil and food) in capture pots can allow earthworms to survive for long periods therefore permitting relatively infrequent examination. Tunnel traps have been successfully used in both field and laboratory experiments which aimed to examine dispersal of the anecic L. terrestris as affected by population density and resources availability.



The structural and functional consequences of changes in size or scale have been well studied in animals with rigid skeletons, but relatively little is known about scale effects in animals with hydrostatic skeletons. We used glycol methacrylate histology and microscopy to examine the scaling of mechanically important morphological features of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris over an ontogenetic size range from 0.03 to 12.89 g. We found that L. terrestris becomes disproportionately longer and thinner as it grows. This increase in the length to diameter ratio with size means that, when normalized for mass, adult worms gain ~117% mechanical advantage during radial expansion, compared with hatchling worms. We also found that the cross-sectional area of the longitudinal musculature scales as body mass to the ~0.6 power across segments, which is significantly lower than the 0.66 power predicted by isometry. The cross-sectional area of the circular musculature, however, scales as body mass to the ~0.8 power across segments, which is significantly higher than predicted by isometry. By modeling the interaction of muscle cross-sectional area and mechanical advantage, we calculate that the force output generated during both circular and longitudinal muscle contraction scales near isometry. We hypothesize that the allometric scaling of earthworms may reflect changes in soil properties and burrowing mechanics with size.
INTRODUCTION

Body size plays a pivotal role in the structure and function of all organisms. Size affects how an organism interacts with its environment as well as the processes needed for survival (Vogel, 1988). Size also imposes physical constraints on organisms, with fundamental effects on organismal design (Schmidt-Nielsen, 1997). A range of important traits change as a function of body size, including: geometry, metabolic rate, kinematics, mechanics and even lifespan. As a consequence, almost every facet of an organism's life may be influenced by its size, including its physiology, morphology, ecology and biomechanics (Schmidt-Nielsen, 1984; Quillin, 1999; Vogel, 2013; Biewener, 2005; Hill et al., 2012). Scaling, the changes in form and function due body size, has been studied primarily in the vertebrates and in some arthropods (e.g. Schmidt-Nielsen, 1997; Biewener, 2005; Nudds, 2007; Chi and Roth, 2010). The effects of scaling on soft-bodied animals have, however, received relatively little attention. The aim of this study was to use histological and microscopic techniques to examine the effects of size and scale on components of the hydrostatic skeleton of an iconic soft-bodied animal, the earthworm.

Many soft-bodied organisms or parts of organisms (e.g. terrestrial and marine worms, cnidarians, echinoderms, bivalves, gastropods and nematodes) possess a hydrostatic skeleton. Hydrostatic skeletons are characterized by a liquid-filled internal cavity surrounded by a muscular body wall (Kier, 2012). Because liquids resist changes in volume, muscular contraction does not significantly compress the fluid, and the resulting increase in internal pressure allows for support, muscular antagonism, mechanical amplification and force transmission (Chapman, 1950; Chapman, 1958; Alexander, 1995; Kier, 2012).

Animals supported by hydrostatic skeletons range in size from a few millimeters (e.g. nematodes) to several meters in length (e.g. earthworms), yet little is known about scale effects on their form and function. Indeed, many individual cephalopods, which rely on a type of hydrostatic skeleton termed a muscular hydrostat, may grow through this entire size range and larger. In addition, many of these animals burrow, and the scaling of burrowing mechanics is also poorly understood compared with other forms of locomotion. We also know little about the effects of the physical properties of the soil on burrowing organisms, or how changes in body size impact soil-animal interactions. Further, this work is of interest because these animals are taxonomically diverse, they live in many environments, and are ecologically and economically important in bioturbation, ecosystem engineering and soil maintenance. Human-induced changes in soil properties from chemicals and heavy machinery could impose size-dependent effects on burrowers that can only be predicted by understanding the scaling of the morphology and mechanics of burrowers. Finally, this research may provide insights useful for the design of biomimetic soft robots for surface locomotion and for burrowing (e.g. Trimmer, 2008; Trivedi et al., 2008; Daltorio et al., 2013).

Previous research on scaling in soft-bodied animals has provided a foundation for our understanding of the scaling of hydrostatic skeletons (Piearce, 1983; Quillin, 1998; Quillin, 1999; Quillin, 2000; Che and Dorgan, 2010; Lin et al., 2011). A number of important issues remain unexplored, however. Prior studies did not sample the smallest specimens in the size range, and were unable to measure several mechanically relevant aspects of the morphology (e.g. circular muscle cross-sectional area) (Quillin, 1998; Quillin, 2000). The results of several previous studies were also contradictory. Some experiments indicate that the hydrostatic skeleton maintains geometric and kinematic similarity with change in body size (e.g. Quillin, 1998; Quillin, 1999), while others suggest disproportionate scaling in both shape and force production (e.g. Piearce, 1983; Quillin, 2000). In addition, many hypotheses on the scaling of the hydrostatic skeleton have not yet been tested, including possible size-dependent changes in muscle stress, muscle cross-sectional area, skeletal leverage, burrowing kinematics, respiration and soil properties (Piearce, 1983; Quillin, 2000).

In this study, we investigated the scaling of functionally relevant aspects of hydrostatic skeleton morphology, using an ontogenetic

List of symbols and abbreviations

A
    muscle cross-sectional area
b
    scaling exponent
bo
    isometric scaling exponent
amech
    mechanical advantage
C
    projected coelomic area
D
    diameter
L
    body length
M
    body mass
OLS
    ordinary least squares
Pm
    pressure due to muscle contraction
RMA
    reduced major axis
V
    volume
sm
    isometric muscle stress

size range of the earthworm Lumbricus terrestris Linnaeus 1758. The results provide new insights into the effects of scale on hydrostatic skeletons and allow us to make testable predictions about the implications of body size for distance and mechanical advantage, force output and internal pressure production.

The hydrostatic skeleton of Lumbricus terrestris

Earthworms have a segmented hydrostatic skeleton. In L. terrestris, the number of segments remains constant during development (Piearce, 1983; Quillin, 1998). Each segment contains coelomic fluid that is largely isolated from the fluid of adjacent segments by muscular septae, allowing segments to act as essentially independent hydraulic units (Seymour, 1969). Two orientations of muscle fibres, circular and longitudinal, are present. The circular fibres act to radially thin the worm and elongate it, while the longitudinal fibres shorten the worm and cause radial expansion. Earthworms crawl and burrow using alternating waves of circular muscle and longitudinal muscle contraction that pass from anterior to posterior down the length of the body and typically involve ~30 segments (Gray and Lissman, 1938; Sims and Gerard, 1985). When the circular muscles contract, the segments thin and are thrust forward, excavating a new burrow in the soil. Contraction of the longitudinal muscles expands the segments radially, enlarging the burrow, anchoring the worm, and pulling the more posterior segments forward. There are typically one to two simultaneous waves of circular and longitudinal muscle contraction along the length of the worm during locomotion (Gray and Lissman, 1938; Quillin, 1999).
Scaling of functionally relevant morphological features

Rather than maintaining similar relative proportions with change in body size, termed isometric growth, many animals show allometric growth, in which the relative proportions change with body size (Huxley and Tessier, 1936; Schmidt-Nielsen, 1997). Allometry is common in animals with rigid skeletons, which must increase disproportionately in relative cross-section to avoid buckling due to an increase in mass. Hydrostatic skeletons lack rigid elements loaded in compression and have been hypothesized to scale isometrically (Quillin, 1998). Thus our null hypothesis is isometric scaling, which can be tested as follows. Because the density of an animal does not change with size, the mass (M) is proportional to the volume (V). If an earthworm scales isometrically, linear dimensions such as length (L) or diameter (D) are predicted to scale to the animal's V1/3 and thus M1/3, and any area, such as surface area or muscle cross-sectional area, will scale as V2/3 and thus M2/3 (see Table 1 for terms).

Alternatively, we hypothesize that the hydrostatic skeleton may scale allometrically in response to selective pressures and constraints on the animal as it changes in size. Such factors are potentially diverse and include, for example, burrowing mechanics, internal hydrostatic pressure, respiration, heat exchange, evaporation, predation, competition and fecundity.

    View inlineView popupDownload powerpoint

Table 1.

Definition of variables used and their isometric scaling exponents
Scaling of linear dimensions

The scaling of the linear dimensions and muscle cross-sectional areas have important implications for the mechanics of the organism, including its kinematics, force production, mechanical advantage and internal coelomic pressure. For hydrostatic skeletons, a change in the length-to-diameter (L/D) ratio affects the leverage provided by the skeletal support system. This can be understood by first referring to animals with rigid skeletons in which levers may amplify force (force output > force input from muscle contraction and thus positive mechanical advantage) or amplify distance (distance output > distance input from muscle contraction and thus positive distance advantage) (Kier and Smith, 1985; Vogel, 1988). Mechanical advantage and distance advantage are reciprocal. Although cylindrical hydrostatic skeletons lack rigid levers, they still allow mechanical advantage or distance advantage, depending on the orientation of the musculature in question and the L/D ratio of the body (Kier and Smith, 1985). For instance, if two cylindrical bodies have identical volume, but one is more elongate and thus has a larger L/D ratio, the body with the larger L/D ratio will show greater distance advantage during elongation (due to shortening by circular muscle) and greater mechanical advantage during lateral expansion (due to shortening by the longitudinal muscle) compared with a hydrostatic skeleton with a smaller L/D ratio (Fig. 1) (Vogel, 2013).

If L. terrestris scales isometrically, the L/D ratio will not change with size because both L and D are linear dimensions and should scale as M1/3. Allometry in the overall dimensions of L. terrestris, however, could affect the relative force and displacement of the musculature during growth. For instance, an increase in the L/D ratio during growth would mean that for a given relative shortening of the circular muscle fibres, the elongation of a large worm would be relatively greater (an increase in distance advantage for the circular muscle). From the standpoint of the longitudinal muscles, an increase in the L/D ratio would result in an increase in mechanical advantage of this musculature in radial expansion of the worm. Because mechanical advantage and distance advantage are reciprocal, an increase in the L/D ratio would decrease the mechanical advantage of the circular musculature and decrease the distance advantage of the longitudinal musculature.
Scaling of muscle cross-sectional areas and force output

The scaling of muscle physiological cross-sectional area (A) determines how relative force production by the musculature changes with size, because force due to muscle contraction is proportional to cross-sectional area. If the circular and longitudinal musculature scale isometrically, the cross-sectional area of each will be proportional to M2/3. The final force output the animal exerts, however, depends not only on the force-producing muscles, but also on the force-transmitting skeleton.
Fig. 1.

    Download figureOpen in new tabDownload powerpoint

Fig. 1.

Schematic comparing skeletal leverage between a high length to diameter cylinder and a low length to diameter cylinder.

The force transmitted by the skeleton to the environment is a product both of the force generated by the muscles and the mechanical advantage produced by the skeleton itself: Embedded Image (1) where F is the force output to the environment, A is the muscle cross-sectional area and amech is the mechanical advantage from the skeleton. As stated above, mechanical advantage in hydrostatic skeletons will remain constant unless the L/D ratio of the animal changes. If L. terrestris grows isometrically and thereby maintains a constant L/D ratio, the mechanical advantage of the two muscle groups will not change and thus the final force output would also scale as M2/3.
Scaling of coelomic pressure

The internal pressure due to muscle contraction is a function of the stress in the muscles, the cross-sectional areas of the muscles and the projected coelomic area over which the muscles act [eqn 3 from Quillin (Quillin, 1998)]: Embedded Image (2) where Pm is the pressure in the coelomic fluid due to muscle contraction, sm is the muscle stress and C is the area of the coelom. If L. terrestris grows isometrically and the peak isometric stress in the muscle (sm) remains constant with body size, Pm will be constant because the ratio of A to C would be unchanged. If the worm scales allometrically in either A or C, then pressure will change with body size.
RESULTS
Scaling of linear dimensions

We found that both body length and diameter across all measured segments scaled allometrically (Fig. 2, Table 2). While body length scaled significantly greater (b=0.39) than predicted for isometry (bo=0.33), the diameter of all measured segments scaled less than predicted (b=0.292, 0.278 and 0.283 for the anterior, middle and posterior segments, respectively). As a consequence, the L/D ratio increases with body size (b=0.119, 0.138 and 0.140 for the anterior, middle and posterior segments, respectively; supplementary material Table S1) instead of remaining constant with body size as would be the case for isometry (bo=0.00). The number of segments active in each peristaltic wave during crawling was independent of body size (supplementary material Table S2).
Scaling of muscle cross-sectional area

The cross-sectional area of the longitudinal musculature (Fig. 3A, Table 3) scaled lower than expected (b=0.620, 0.553 and 0.591 for the anterior, middle and posterior segments, respectively) compared with isometry (bo=0.667) for all segments measured. However, the circular muscle cross-sectional areas of the middle and posterior segments exhibited the opposite trend. The circular muscle cross-sectional area in the middle and posterior segments (Fig. 3B, Table 3) scaled greater than expected (b=0.815, 0.840 for middle and posterior segments, respectively) compared with isometric scaling (bo=0.667). Circular muscle cross-sectional area in the anterior segment did not scale significantly differently from isometry (b=0.690).
Scaling of leverage and force production

Because of the increase in the L/D ratio with size, the mechanical advantage and distance advantage of the musculature changes with size (Fig. 4). We calculated that the mechanical advantage of the circular musculature will decrease with body size (b=-0.112) but that of the longitudinal musculature will increase (b=0.112). Because the force output is proportional to the product of the mechanical advantage and cross-sectional area of the musculature, we calculated that the force output (Table 4) from the longitudinal muscle scales greater than isometry in the anterior segments (b=0.724) and near isometry for the middle and posterior segments (b=0.653 and 0.680 for the middle and posterior segments, respectively). Force output from the circular muscle of the anterior segments scales less than expected (b=0.561) for isometry, but the force output of the circular muscle of the middle and posterior segments scales near isometry (b=0.687 and 0.696 for the middle and posterior segments, respectively).
Fig. 2.

    Download figureOpen in new tabDownload powerpoint

Fig. 2.

Scaling of linear dimensions. (A) Log-transformed graph comparing body length with body mass. (B) Log-transformed graph comparing Dmiddle (diameter of segment 30, from the anterior) with body mass. Regressions depict the isometric scaling exponent (bo, dashed red line) and the scaling exponent fit to empirical data using reduced major axis regression (b, solid line). N=25.

    View inlineView popupDownload powerpoint

Table 2.

Hypothesis testing of linear dimensions using 95% confidence intervals (CI)
Scaling of pressure

We did not observe a difference from isometry (b=0.00) in the ratio of the areas of the muscle and coelom (A/C) for the anterior and middle segments for both the longitudinal muscles (b=0.021 and 0.060 for the anterior and middle segments, respectively) and the circular muscles (b=0.044 and 0.049 for anterior and middle segments, respectively; Fig. 5, Table 5). The posterior segments, however, showed significant differences in the ratio of A/C with body size for both the longitudinal (b=0.146) and circular (b=0.378) muscle.
DISCUSSION
Scaling trends

Although previous work (Quillin, 1998) had suggested that scaling of the hydrostatic skeleton should be isometric, our results show that a number of mechanically important dimensions of L. terrestris grow allometrically. We suspect that these differences reflect the methods used. Quillin (Quillin, 1998) used frozen sections, which tend to be subject to much greater distortion and artefact and are significantly thicker than the sections we obtained using glycol methacrylate embedding. Glycol methacrylate embedding procedures have the advantage of causing very little distortion and shrinkage, compared with other histological methods, and thinner sections allow better resolution of detail. In addition, her sections were unstained, which makes identification of the components of the tissues challenging, in particular in the smallest specimens. Instead, we employed selective stains that allowed clear differentiation of muscle and connective tissues. Finally, we used serial sections in both sagittal and transverse planes, while Quillin (Quillin, 1998) sectioned in the sagittal plane only, which complicates the measurement of the cross-sectional area of the longitudinal muscle in particular.
Mechanical and distance advantage

We found that L. terrestris grows disproportionately long (L a M0.397) and thin (D a M <0.30), and thus the length-to-diameter ratio increases with body size (L/D a M>0.10). This trend was also observed by Piearce (Piearce, 1983), who measured formalin-fixed L. terrestris earthworms and noted an increase in the L/D ratio with mass. This increase in the L/D ratio impacts the mechanics of the musculature. We estimated the effect of this allometry on the scaling of distance advantage and mechanical advantage of the musculature during elongation and shortening. From the standpoint of the circular musculature that elongates the animal, adult worms (10 g body mass) have an ~117% greater distance advantage compared with 0.01 g hatchlings. This increase in distance advantage during elongation is consistent with the observations of Quillin (Quillin, 1999), who found that L. terrestris' stride length (i.e. distance traveled during one peristaltic wave) during crawling increased allometrically with size. From the standpoint of the longitudinal musculature that shortens the animal and thereby causes radial expansion, we estimate that adults have 117% greater mechanical advantage compared with 0.01 g hatchlings.
Force output

Force output to the environment is a function of both the force generated by the muscles and the transmission of that force by the skeleton. In order to predict the scaling of force output, we multiplied the scaling of the muscle cross-sectional area by the scaling of mechanical advantage of the skeleton. Although the longitudinal muscle cross-sectional area increases less than predicted by isometry (Al a M0.553-0.620), it gains mechanical advantage with size (amech a M0.112) due to the increase in L/D. The increase in mechanical advantage compensates for the allometric scaling of the muscle cross-sectional area, and the force output is thus nearly isometric (Fl a M0.653-0.724). The circular musculature shows a similar trend; in the middle and posterior segments, the circular muscle cross-sectional area increases at a rate that is greater than predicted by isometry (Ac a M0.69-0.840), but its mechanical advantage decreases with size (amech a M-0.112). The force output is thus nearly isometric (Fc a M0.561-0.696).
Fig. 3.

    Download figureOpen in new tabDownload powerpoint

Fig. 3.

Scaling of muscle cross-sectional areas. (A) Log-transformed graph of longitudinal muscle cross-sectional area in the middle segment (Al,middle) and body mass. (B) Log-transformed graph of circular muscle area in the middle segment (Ac,middle) and body mass. Regressions depict the isometric scaling exponent (bo, dashed red line) and the scaling exponent fit to empirical data using reduced major axis regression (b, solid line). N=25.

    View inlineView popupDownload powerpoint

Table 3.

Hypothesis testing of muscle cross-sectional areas using 95% CI

While our findings on the scaling of circular muscle cross-sectional area are in agreement with prior research by Quillin (Quillin, 2000), our force calculations do not resolve the disproportionately low scaling of force measured by Quillin in earthworms crawling through force transducers. In the present study we were able to address several of the factors that she suggested might be responsible for the discrepancy, including scaling of muscle area and of mechanical advantage. In addition, she suggested that muscle stress might vary with body size, the kinematics of burrowing might change with size, and the resistance to soil deformation might depend on the scale of the deformation, issues that are the focus of our current investigations. An additional possibility may be the relative dimensions of the force transducers used in her experiments, which may not have measured an equivalent number of segments in the seven size classes of worms analyzed.
Pressure from muscle contraction

We found no significant trend with size of the ratio between muscle cross-sectional area and area of the coelom (Pm a A/C a M0). Although the contractile properties of the developing muscle have not been measured, if we assume that the peak isometric stress of the muscle is independent of body size, then these results predict that the pressure produced by the musculature will be independent of body size. Internal pressure measurements of L. terrestris are consistent with this prediction and exhibit no trend with body size (Quillin, 1998; Keudel and Schrader, 1999).
Intersegmental differences

Several of the allometric trends differed between segments, which may reflect the relative importance of different portions of the body in burrowing. Because the peristaltic wave often dissipates as it travels down the length of the body, segments closer to the tail are likely of less importance in burrowing than those near the head (Yapp and Roots, 1956). Our data are consistent with this proposal as longitudinal force production of the anterior segments increased at a greater rate (Fl a M0.724) than expected from isometry, while the middle and posterior segments scaled close to isometry. The longitudinal muscles are thought to be important in moving soil laterally to enlarge the burrow, anchor the worm and relieve stress ahead of the worm (Gray and Lissman, 1938; Keudel and Schrader, 1999).

We also found that circular muscle force production scaled disproportionately low in the anterior segments (Fc a M0.561), but scaled near isometry for the middle and posterior segments. The circular musculature plays an important role when the animal crawls on the surface by causing the segments to elongate and move forward. Indeed, in contrast to burrowing, the highest pressures recorded during crawling result from circular muscle contraction (Seymour, 1969). Thus, the allometric trends we observed in the anterior segments may reflect the increased importance of burrowing locomotion as L. terrestris develops, as only adult worms are found to make deep burrows.
Potential selective pressures for allometric growth

Because we identified several significant allometric growth patterns in L. terrestris, it is of interest to consider the potential selective pressures that may be acting on these animals in the environment, especially because previous research had predicted that growth would be isometric. We briefly outline below two hypotheses for the allometric trends observed. These hypotheses are not mutually exclusive and testing them is a focus of our ongoing research.
Strain hardening in soil

As an earthworm grows, selection might favor a thinner body in order to reduce 'strain hardening' during burrow formation (Piearce, 1983). Many soils, including loose granular soils and consolidated clays, exhibit this phenomenon, in which the modulus of compression or stiffness of the soil increases with increasing strain (Chen, 1975; Yong et al., 2012; Holtz et al., 2010). As an earthworm grows in cross-section, it must displace more soil radially, with a resulting increase in the stiffness of the soil surrounding the burrow. Small worms (including the hatchlings of burrowing earthworm species) are often found near the soil surface and have been hypothesized to squeeze through existing cracks and pores as 'crevice burrowers' (Arthur, 1965; Gerard, 1967). If small worms can indeed exploit these small crevices, they may avoid displacing the soil and thereby avoid the strain hardening effect. As a burrower grows and exceeds the size of the crevices, there could be a selective advantage in becoming relatively thinner to reduce this effect. This would explain why we found that L. terrestris grew disproportionately long and thin during ontogeny. Our results indicate that the relative reduction in diameter was achieved by reducing both the longitudinal muscle cross-section (Al a M0.553-0.620) and the cross-sectional area of the coelom; the ratio of longitudinal muscle area to coelomic area did not change with body size (Al/Cl a M0).
Fig. 4.

    Download figureOpen in new tabDownload powerpoint

Fig. 4.

Predictive model comparing mechanical advantage with body mass. (A) Mechanical advantage from circular muscle contraction (amech,circular) and (B) mechanical advantage from longitudinal muscle contraction (amech,longitudinal) as a function of earthworm body mass.

    View inlineView popupDownload powerpoint

Table 4.

Model predicting the scaling of force output
Crack propagation

The increase in the length to diameter ratio we observed here may also be the result of selective pressures associated with burrowing using a mechanism termed 'crack propagation', which has been demonstrated in numerous burrowers in marine muds (Dorgan et al., 2005; Dorgan et al., 2007; Dorgan et al., 2008). Che and Dorgan (Che and Dorgan, 2010) found that small marine worms that use this mechanism, which involves lateral expansion of the anterior portion of the body to fracture the mud, are relatively thicker when burrowing and exert relatively higher forces in order to apply the required stress to propagate a crack ahead of the worm. Thus, they show allometry in body dimensions similar to that observed here for L. terrestris, with small worms being relatively thicker than large worms. Dorgan et al. (Dorgan et al., 2005), based on a review of earthworm and root growth literature, propose that terrestrial soils may fracture, but the possibility of crack propagation by terrestrial worms has not yet been investigated. This is an important area for future research because a variety of terrestrial soil environments possess mechanical properties amenable to this burrowing mechanism (Molles, 2009).
Conclusions

Our analysis indicates that, contrary to expectations from previous work, the hydrostatic skeleton of L. terrestris does not exhibit isometric scaling during growth. A number of functionally relevant aspects of the morphology scale allometrically, including the overall shape of the animal and the cross-sectional area of the musculature. Additional work is needed to investigate the selective pressures responsible for the increase in the L/D ratio and allometry in the force production of the anterior segments. We hypothesize that changes in soil properties and burrowing mechanics with size are important. We intend to test these hypotheses and also explore the scaling of hydrostatic skeletons in other taxa, taking advantage of the taxonomic diversity and range of habitats and ecology of soft-bodied invertebrates. Using this approach, we hope to identify general principles of scaling in hydrostatic skeletons and burrowing mechanics.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
Lumbricus terrestris collection and maintenance

Juvenile (1-3 g) worms were supplied by Knutson's Live Bait (Brooklyn, MI, USA) as well as raised from hatchlings bred in a colony maintained in the laboratory. Adult worms (3-10 g) were purchased locally and raised from purchased juveniles or from colony hatchlings. Hatchlings were raised from cocoons deposited by adults bred in the laboratory colony. All worms were housed in plastic bins filled with moist topsoil (composed of organic humus and peat moss) at 17°C (Berry and Jordan, 2001) and fed dried infant oatmeal (Burch et al., 1999).
Anaesthetization, length measurements and dissection

Each worm was anaesthetized in a 10% ethanol solution in distilled water (v/v) until quiescent, patted dry and weighed. The length was obtained after pulling the worm by the anterior end along the bench surface in order to straighten the body and extend the segments to a consistent resting length. Because L. terrestris does not add segments with growth, we measured the length of the entire body (Piearce, 1983; Quillin, 1998). The worm was then killed and three blocks of tissue containing 20 segments each were removed (segments 1-20, 21-40 and 41-60, numbering from anterior). We examined these three areas to document potential variation along the length of the worm, although particular attention was paid to segments in the anterior half of the worm because it is of greatest importance in locomotion (the posterior half of the worm is often passively dragged along) (Yapp and Root, 1956).
Fig. 5.

    Download figureOpen in new tabDownload powerpoint

Fig. 5.

Scaling of the ratio of muscle cross-sectional areas (A) to projected coelomic area (C) where muscle contraction is applied. The subscripts l and c refer to longitudinal and circular muscles, respectively. (A) Plot of Al/Cl,middle relative to body mass. (B) Plot of Ac/Cc,middle relative to body mass. N=25.

    View inlineView popupDownload powerpoint

Table 5.

Hypothesis testing of muscle and coelom area using 95% CI

The tissue blocks were fixed in 10% formalin in distilled water (v/v) for 24-48 h. After fixation, the blocks were further dissected for embedding (segments 9-14, 29-34 and 49-54). We refer to segments 9-14 as 'anterior', segments 29-34 as 'middle' and segments 49-54 as 'posterior'. The anterior, middle and posterior segments were then cut in half transversely so that both transverse and sagittal sections could be obtained from each location (Fig. 6).
Histology and morphometrics

The tissue blocks were partially dehydrated in 95% ethanol and embedded in glycol methacrylate plastic (Technovit 7100, Heraeus Kulzer GmbH, Wehrheim, Germany) to minimize tissue distortion. Sections of 3-7 micrometer thickness were cut with a glass knife. We used a Picrosirius/Fast Green stain in order to differentiate muscle from connective tissue (Lopez-DeLeon and Rojkind, 1985). We adapted the protocol to glycol methacrylate by staining at 60°C for 1-2 h followed by a distilled water rinse, drying and mounting of coverslips. We used Sigma Scan (Systat Software, Inc., San Jose, CA, USA) to make morphological measurements on micrographs. Longitudinal muscle cross-sectional area (Al), projected area of application in the coelom during longitudinal muscle contraction (Cl) and diameter (D) were measured using transverse sections. Circular muscle cross-sectional area (Ac) and projected area of application in the coelom during circular muscle contraction (Cc) were measured using sagittal sections. The earthworms prepared in this way were flattened slightly and thus had an elliptical cross-section. To determine an equivalent diameter of a circular cylinder, we used measurements of the major and minor axes to calculate the area of the ellipse and then calculated the diameter of a circle of the same area.

We estimated the scaling of internal pressure produced by muscle contraction using Eqn 2 and measurements of coelomic area from transverse and sagittal sections, with the assumption of no change with size in the peak isometric stress of the muscle sm. Pressure from longitudinal muscle contraction was calculated using Al and Cl, while pressure from circular muscle contraction was calculated using Ac and Cc (Quillin, 1998): Embedded Image (3) Embedded Image (4)
Calculation of mechanical advantage and force output

As we describe above, the L/D ratio was observed to change as a function of size and thus the mechanical advantage of the musculature changes during growth. Because the mechanical advantage is the reciprocal of the distance advantage, we calculated the mechanical advantage (amech) of the circular musculature as the absolute value of the decrease in body diameter (D) during circular muscle contraction divided by the resulting increase in body length (L), as a function of the L/D ratio, for the 25% decrease body in diameter that is typical of L. terrestris during movement (Quillin, 1999). Likewise, the mechanical advantage of the longitudinal muscle was calculated as the absolute value of the decrease body length of the worm divided by the resulting increase in body diameter, as a function of the L/D ratio: Embedded Image (5) Embedded Image (6) These calculations thus provided estimates of the mechanical advantage of both the longitudinal and circular musculature as a function of size.
Fig. 6.

    Download figureOpen in new tabDownload powerpoint

Fig. 6.

Photomicrographs (brightfield microscopy) of 7-micrometer-thick sections of Lumbricus terrestris stained with Picrosirius/Fast Green. (A) Transverse section through the anterior segments. (B) Inset of sagittal section shows higher magnification view of cross-section of the circular musculature. (C) Parasagittal section through the anterior segments. (D) Inset of transverse section shows higher magnification view of cross-section of the longitudinal musculature. LM, longitudinal muscle; CM, circular muscle.
Statistical analysis

We used the lmodel2 package (Legendre, 2011) in R (R Development Core Team, 2013) for statistical analysis. We performed both ordinary least squares (OLS) and reduced major axis (RMA) regression on the log-transformed scaling data fit to the power function y=aMb, where y represents the morphological traits of interest, a is the scaling constant, M is body mass and b is the scaling exponent. OLS regression does not account for error in the independent variable, while RMA regression does (Rayner, 1985). We calculated the 95% confidence intervals of the slope to determine whether the scaling exponent b was significantly different from the expected isometric scaling exponent bo, as described previously (e.g. Herrel and O'Reilly, 2006; Nudds, 2007; Chi and Roth, 2010). Both OLS regression and RMA regression fit similar scaling exponents in our analysis and were consistent in distinguishing significant differences from isometry. Because of the similarity and agreement between the models, only the RMA regressions are reported.

562816.fig.002
Figure 2: Plan view of a tunnel trap showing a mature L. terrestris exiting a 20-litre mesocosm into the attached 1-litre capture pot (lids removed). Insert shows a lateral view of the whole setup.

The types of simple investigation associated with earthworm sampling should allow some of the following questions to be answered.
(i)Which species of earthworms are present within the community in the given habitat (ii) At what densities (number m-2) and biomasses (gm-2) are these animals present (iii)What proves to be the most efficient method for collection of given earthworm species (iv)Can populations be experimentally manipulated to test density-related hypotheses (using addition/removal, fencing, and trapping)
3. Burrowing and Burrow Morphology

As with unearthing which species are present, as previously described, working out which species are active and at what depths is not so simple. Again, it usually requires some form of intervention as many earthworms are relatively small and generally live below the surface of the soil. However, some species do proclaim their presence by depositing their casts (faeces) on the soil surface. This is particularly true of larger species which may be digging burrows and have relatively large amounts of earth to dispose of and others which are almost constantly "head down" and "bottom up" producing surface casts. In temperate soils a good example of this is Aporrectodea longa (the black-headed or long worm). When present at high densities, this species is capable of almost totally covering the grass surface of a pasture with casts. It has been suggested that the amount of casting could even be used as a proxy for the density of (known casting) species present in an area. Where the spread of A. longa was being followed, after introduction to an unpopulated site, casting activity was used to follow dispersal of this species through the soil over many years [26, 27]. Another deep burrowing earthworm which provides signs of its presence on the soil surface is L. terrestris. This species constructs "middens" and these structures are normally engineered above the opening of the near vertical burrow used by this animal. Scientists have been aware of such structures since Darwin's day, but the precise function is still uncertain. Middens consist of organic (e.g., leaf) and inorganic (e.g., pebble) materials gathered together by the resident earthworm and often cemented together with casts. Regulation of burrow temperature and moisture content may be an obvious function, but protection from predators and provision of a food store (a minicompost heap) may be others. Whichever way, the midden and associated burrow forms an integral part of the life of this relatively sedentary earthworm. Recent work has also revealed that many other earthworm species are associated with L. terrestris middens compared with adjacent nonmidden soil; so middens may play a major part in determining distribution of other earthworms at a microscale.

Nevertheless, most earthworms are mainly active below the soil surface; so most investigations need to proceed within the soil. Using burrows that open at the surface, such as those of L. terrestris, is one way. Observations have shown that large burrows (often referred to as macropores; diameter 8-10?mm) may have the capacity to accept relatively large volumes of rainwater and assist with prevention of surface soil erosion. Testing of this type of water entry into the soil is easily undertaken. The simplest method is to create a water-tight, isolated area at the soil surface (an infiltration "ring") covering a known surface area and then add a known volume of water to that area and record the time taken for all water to enter the soil. Comparing different areas within a given habitat/field can be very revealing, particularly when coupled with earthworm collection from the same areas. A slight elaboration on this technique is to use a vertical column of water (Marriot device) which can be fed directly into a single burrow. Such work investigated the burrow systems of L. terrestris in agricultural systems. Infiltration of water into burrows was examined with the resident earthworm present or after its removal (with a vermifuge) - the earthworm itself forming something of a plug. To further quantify and equate water ingress with burrow morphology, efforts were made to assess the volume of individual burrows. This was finally achieved by the use of a polyurethane resin, poured down the burrow and allowed to set hard. Subsequently the solid representation of the burrow void was dug out by excavation of a pit alongside. Use of coloured pigment within the resin makes visual inspection in situ and after extraction much easier (see Figure 3). A simpler technique than use of resin is use of coloured dyes. Dyes such as methylene blue in water can be poured into burrows or cracks in the soil and then the area around excavated to see the extent of burrow systems present.
562816.fig.003
Figure 3: A burrow of Lumbricus terrestris filled with white-coloured resin and exposed in the soil profile to its terminal depth at 1?m.

If access to a large digging machine is possible, then excavation of a pit in any soil can be very revealing. As mentioned "resin-cast" burrows can be revealed, but unadulterated burrows, if large enough, may also be seen. For example, during an investigation undertaken during a period of frost depth to 0.5?m, it was possible to follow burrows down to a depth of 1?m by "picking away" at the exposed soil profile with knives. This investigation, more interestingly, revealed much on the behaviour of L. terrestris and the (usually) shallow working Aporrectodea caliginosa during relatively cold periods. However, should it prove impossible to create a large soil pit, then it is possible to consider the activities of earthworms under more controlled conditions in a nonfield setting.

A soil pit exposes a cut surface through the soil profile, which is in essence a 2-dimensional view. This can be recreated by production of what might be viewed as a "wormery" - a structure comprising 2 sheets of glass separated by a very small distance, for example, 5-8?mm. Such structures not only have in the past been sold for domestic use (by children) to observe earthworms but also have a more research-focussed application. Early work allowed use of such structures to observe the burrow formation of earthworms, and more recently these "Evans' boxes" - also referred to as 2D mesocosms - have been used for similar aims but more specific objectives (see Figure 4). These workers examined the burrowing of L. terrestris but were specifically interested in the interactions between the various life stages of this species and found, until then, previously unrecorded aspects of cocoon deposition in side chambers and encasement of these cocoons with castings (see Figure 5). Such findings clearly demonstrate that observations of this type can reveal burrow-related behaviours which may have some significance in the life of these animals and not have been recognised before, even though this is a very well-studied species. Table 2 shows some of the experimental data also gathered from this investigation.
tab2
Table 2: Details of cocoons and hatchlings of Lumbricus terrestris (mean SD) produced under a number of adult manipulations in Evans' boxes, kept at in darkness (CTRL: no manipulation; CLtRm: earthworm removed and reintroduced; LtRp: earthworm removed and replaced by another; LtRm: earthworm removed - adapted from).
562816.fig.004
Figure 4: Upper 30?cm showing view through the glass side of an 80?cm deep Evans' box used to examine burrowing behaviour of a single mature L. terrestris (the adult can be seen across the centre).
562816.fig.005
Figure 5: Detail of a side burrow with L. terrestris cocoon encased in parental casting seen in an Evans' box with one glass side removed (to permit better photography).

Other ways of tracking earthworm burrows and assessing burrowing behaviours under controlled conditions are available and might be thought more appropriate as they do not occur in two dimensions. Soil cores can be extracted from the field (within suitable housing such as plastic cylinders), for example, by driving these into the soil from above and then maintaining them for the desired purpose. This may be to examine earthworm communities within and how they may assist other ecosystem process, for example, by comparing intact cores with those frozen to remove earthworms. Relatively recently, use of X-ray tomography has been used to determine burrow configurations in such cores. Whilst this may be a useful tool; it is one which required access to hospital-grade equipment so it cannot be considered basic. However soil cores can be utilised to study relatively simple "ecosystems" with earthworms as a component. These may allow examination of different animal species present and also plants growing at the soil surface, if kept in glasshouses. Inputs and out flows could also then be measured in simple terms. Taken to extreme lengths, researchers have developed systems such as the "Ecotron" which has incorporated earthworms into its experimental systems but this facility was produced at a cost of $1.5?million. Despite this cost and sophisticated equipment for measuring in and out flows of gases and liquids, the choice of earthworm species, as a part of a biodiversity and ecosystem behaviour experiment, may not have been appropriate to the given mesocosms. Once again, a situation, where most expensive and modern, does not necessarily mean most appropriate and insightful. Much more simple investigations in sealed mesocosms (pots) may not give rise to the bigger ecosystem "picture" but may provide good data on earthworm life histories (see below).

Surface-related and burrow-associated investigations might enable some of the following questions to be addressed.
(i)Which species are present at which horizons/depth in the soil profile (ii)What can be learned from earthworm activities at the soil surface (iii)Do burrows assist water infiltration (iv)How can earthworm burrow extent and volume be measured (v)Can the field (cores) be brought into and utilised in a controlled setting (vi)Can mesocosms be used to observe earthworms burrowing behaviour more closely
4. Life History Studies

Many species have been well documented and much is known of their life history, but for example, ask any researcher to tell you what age an earthworm can live to, or which life stage is responsible for dispersal and you may find that no simple answer is forthcoming (even for L. terrestris). Great scope exists for gathering fundamental information on aspects of the life histories of most earthworm species. In Britain, where earthworms are reasonably well documented and a synopsis of species has been available in a number of revised forms for over 60 years [38, 39], information is still lacking in a number of quarters. For example, Dendrobaena attemsi is described from a single British record from Cumbria; yet we have collected this species easily from wooded areas on the Isle of Rum in Scotland. Equally for the same species, and more importantly with respect to life history, entries such as "presumably biparental" and "capsules unrecorded" show that much is still to be learned - and perhaps this can be achieved relatively simply.

Wherever a researcher is based, there will be opportunities to collect local species of earthworm, as previously described. Providing that identification is not a problem, there are then chances to answer basic questions on the life history of the species. Using the soil from where the animals were collected, it should be possible to maintain them in containers of a chosen size, appropriate for the given species and its ecological group. The situation is to then ask relevant questions and seek to answer these through segregation of life stages and sampling at given time intervals. An initial question might relate to the mode of reproduction shown by the given species; is it amphimictic (requiring sexual reproduction) or parthenogenetic? To solve this, in the least amount of time, immature individuals need to be isolated and kept thus until they mature. This will naturally require consideration of their requirements in terms of, for example, soil, food, moisture, temperature, and space. Inspection at appropriate time periods, monthly, weekly, or more frequently for rapidly maturing animals will determine when maturity (possession of a swollen clitellum) is reached. At this point the animals might usefully be subdivided into two groups 1 : 2. The smaller third should be left in isolation and the larger two-thirds put into groups of two to give an equal number of singletons and pairs. These labelled containers can then be monitored for cocoon production over the following weeks.

Sampling for cocoons can be straightforward and require a water supply and a mesh of appropriate size - depending on cocoon size - which is a function of clitellum diameter. Contents of containers in which adults have been kept can be sieved to obtain cocoons. These can then be incubated in Petri dishes, or equivalent, on moistened filter paper or similar at an appropriate temperature for the given species (Figure 6). If animals have been kept, for example, in soil columns, then the depth at which cocoons are deposited might be considered by sieving away different levels from the column (more easily achieved if the cylinder in which they are housed is presplit (and taped together) along its length). Incubation of cocoons can then occur and time to develop and hatch can be monitored. To obtain cocoons more rapidly for any species, mature animals which are field-collected can be employed directly in cocoon production studies and number produced per individual per time can be recorded from the given conditions under which they are maintained. Cocoons may be kept in groups or individually (depending on space available). The advantage of individual incubation is that the number of hatchlings can more easily be assessed, as many epigeic species produce more than one hatchling per cocoon. To complete life cycle records, growth of hatchlings to maturity can be assessed. This requires the type of conditions previously described but with periodic monitoring (and mass determination) until maturity is reached (see Figure 7 for typical results). Manipulation of biotic and abiotic factors influencing the growth and reproduction of the earthworms, such as population density, food quality, interspecific interactions, temperature, and a host of others and combinations thereof, can be considered. Finally to ascertain the age to which earthworms can live, animals might need to be kept for some time.
562816.fig.006
Figure 6: Freshly produced cocoons of L. terrestris housed on a moistened filter paper in a Petri dish. These were produced by 1 earthworm over 1 month.
562816.fig.007
Figure 7: Typical earthworm growth curves obtained from periodic measurement of masses. Here Lumbricus terrestris was examined under constant temperature conditions (? ; | ; ? ; ? C; adapted from).

One relatively simple technique that might assist life history/population studies is the ability to permanently mark (tag) individual earthworms. Recent work has shown that it is possible, through injection of Visual Implant Elastomer (VIE), available from Northwest Marine Technology to visually colour tag earthworms. In addition these tags have been shown to be retained in a number of earthworm species for more than 2 years and have no detrimental effects on growth to maturity, mating, and cocoon production in one closely studied species, L. terrestris. This technique may well prove to be valuable in earthworm age determination but may also reveal much from studies of population dynamics, in terms of capture, mark recapture exercises. Tagging captured animals and then recapture data could assist in learning much more of these organisms particularly in a variety of habitats. Cohorts of the same species could be tagged with different colours in different years to permit a better understanding, for example, of survival. Used in combination with density manipulation experiments, this type of exercise has already revealed aspects of L. terrestris dispersal and settlement under field conditions in managed woodland plots. It should be noted that at current (2009) prices, this material is relatively inexpensive, with a trial pack of VIE costing $42. Such an amount will permit tagging of hundreds of earthworms (see Figures 8(a) and 8(b)).
fig8
Figure 8: (a) Injection of yellow Visual Implant Elastomer (VIE) into Lumbricus terrestris; (b) Octolasion cyaneum with a red VIE tag inserted.

By collecting earthworms and maintaining them under controlled environmental conditions, it ought to be possible to answer most of the following questions on life histories.
(i)What mode of reproduction is exhibited by a given species (ii)Where in the soil are cocoons produced (iii) How long does cocoon incubation take before hatching occurs (iv)How many hatchlings are produced per cocoon (v)How long does it take for growth to maturity and at what mass is this reached (vi) Which factors (biotic or abiotic) may have a major influence on the above (vii) To what age does this species live
5. Behavioural Studies

Many activities of earthworms, known for decades, still present uncertainties in terms of interpretation. Equally, where glimpses of the subterranean world are provided, much can be learned. Some behaviours relating to burrowing and casting have already been discussed; so this section will concentrate on just a small number of behaviours, such as mating and dispersal and focus on techniques which may be of use to further investigate them. Many authors have reported mass emergence and dispersal of earthworms. The timing of this may be seasonal or associated with particular weather conditions. The species concerned may vary but perhaps this behaviour has a common underlying cause? Often occurring at night, in urban settings it might normally go unnoticed, but for the fact that "stranded" earthworms may be found the following morning on surfaces such as concrete or tarmac, into which they are unable to burrow.

En masse emergence of earthworms may often follow periods of rain. Opinions vary, but some suggest that this is a function of earthworms exiting their burrows as a response to inundation which might lead to potential death. We dispute this idea, as earthworms are able to survive lengthy periods of submergence in water, and support the hypothesis that it is more closely related to dispersal. A question posed earlier related to the life stage at which earthworms disperse. Perhaps other related questions that need addressing are why would earthworms seek to disperse and what factors might encourage this? The "why" part may relate directly to evolutionary biology. Even though they are hermaphrodite, many earthworm species show sexual reproduction. Therefore mating may normally occur with near neighbours. To bring about greater possible exchange of genetic material and avoid inbreeding, movement away from place of birth (dispersal) is required at some point in the life cycle. This then moves on to the "how" part. Movement through the soil is slow and may only average a few metres per year [26, 48], but over surface movement by earthworms may be much more rapid. To this end, some earthworm species may utilise periods following rain to disperse as the wet conditions prevailing will enhance movement across the soil surface and decrease the chances of desiccation and death from exposure. It could be argued that such behaviour would not therefore be found in parthenogenetic species if this were the only reason for emergence, and this is not the case as Octolasion cyaneum is such a species regularly located on the surface after some rains. Nevertheless, the latter may be utilising wet conditions to try and disperse to increase its distribution. All of this may seem very academic, but it does give reason for what is now described.

To assess surface movement of earthworms, fencing of the type already described could be employed, along with traps if desired. In addition it is possible to "encourage" dispersal by simulating the stimuli that might be responsible. In the simplest terms, inundation experiments could be derived to sprinkle water on to enclosed plots, at known rates, and record qualitatively and quantitatively the (nocturnal) emergence of earthworm species (and life stages). Naturally other factors such as temperature, brightness of the moon, and more may have an influence and need to be considered. Nevertheless, such manipulations might reveal a great deal on the dispersal behaviour of some of the species present in known communities.

Another series of relatively simple experiment (with countless subtle developments) might be employed to measure direct actions of earthworms on organic matter incorporation into soils. So-called "litter bag" experiments require known quantities of (air dried) organic matter from a site, to be enclosed in mesh constructions which permit, by the size of the mesh, access to certain groups of detritivorous soil organisms [9, 50]. This requires some knowledge of the groups present and the type(s) of earthworm at the site but comparisons across different habitats, for example, or below different stands of trees can be revealing (see Figure 9). The litter bags need to be located at the soil surface (pinned down) or buried at chosen soil depths, to permit access to different ecological groups. In addition or instead, choice chamber experiments can be derived by offering laboratory-held earthworms different types of known food materials in specifically designed mesocosms. Where an earthworm, such as L. terrestris, feeds directly from the soil surface, experiments can also be set up to determine which food is eaten/removed to the burrow and if choices are made. This can be determined by observation of which material has been disturbed after the event or more directly through recording of the actual behaviours in progress. Results from such laboratory experiments can show, for example, the preference for different agricultural/industrial waste organic materials spread on fields where L. terrestris is present (see Figure 10). Details on the type of technology required for this are provided below.
562816.fig.009
Figure 9: Decreasing mass of birch leaf litter from 3?mm mesh litter bags related to tree plots on the Isle of Rum; from known earthworm communities below pure stands of oak-?; birch-|; pine-?; on moorland-? (adapted from).
562816.fig.0010
Figure 10: Results after one night of feeding by a single L. terrestris offered equal amounts of barley straw and waste paper pulp in a 0.25? arena with the earthworm housed in a central cylinder of attached soil (from above).

Surface-related behaviours, as described with respect to dispersal, can be recorded indirectly through trapping. Nevertheless feeding and mating at the soil surface, where it occurs, may be better recorded through direct means. The full mating behaviour of L. terrestris, including premating burrow visits by partners and the 3.5-hour mating itself, was first described after use of video recording using a simple security-type camera setup, linked to a basic video recorder. More recent work has examined details of the mating more thoroughly. This same technology was also used to obtain results for food choice in this species. However, such work may now be considered costly and has been overtaken by more recent developments in the IT world, whereby a "webcam" can now be obtained relatively inexpensively for similar use. This may seem to be a contradiction of the ethos of this article, but as will be seen, costs here may be negligible. Recent work has investigated, for example, the effects of pesticides and water inundation on earthworm behaviour. For further experiments in progress, examining light effects on surface-related behaviours of earthworms, equipment was obtained including web cams and the appropriate software (for use on a standard PC) for less than $100 (at 2009 prices). Figure 11 was obtained during this particular set of experiments housing animals in plastic tubes (drainpipes).
562816.fig.0011
Figure 11: A pair of mating L. terrestris on the soil surface, revealed and photographed after sun rise.

Behavioural work with earthworms may still be regarded as in its infancy, although some major revelations have occurred, particularly with L. terrestris [53, 54]. From basic observations of mating behaviour, through mate selection, to close scrutiny of copulatory interaction, has all been examined. Great scope still exists in the area of earthworm behaviour and some of the following questions could be addressed.
(i) Which species exhibit mass dispersal and which life stages are involved (ii)How much leaf litter is removed or consumed by earthworms in given habitats (iii) Can removal of organic matter into the soil be harnessed for soil improvement (iv) Is L. terrestris the only species that mates on the soil surface (v)Do other earthworm species show mate choice
6. Field Manipulation of Populations (Assisting the Plough)

Where soils require an input of earthworms, augmentation can be brought about using the above information - collection, selection for activities, and even selection for mass culture before field-release. Earthworms, because of their activities in the soil, are, where appropriate, considered as vital components of a healthy, fully functional system. Reviews of research have shown that, across the world and in numerous habitats, the provision of earthworms to sites where they were absent, assistance with recolonisation, or improvements to the type of conditions conducive to their survival can bring about marked positive changes in soil properties [56, 57].

Should areas exist that are devoid of earthworms, for known or unknown reasons, then one approach might be to (re)introduce them to site. Numerous methods are available to achieve this but most can be described simply as "collection and broadcast" using the type of collection techniques previously mentioned or "turf transfer", digging up and translocating soil with grass attached. Both have been used and have positive attributes but equally have less attractive features (see Table 3). To assist the reintroduction process, information gathered on earthworm life histories and requirements for culture have been coupled with further data relating to activities in the soil and interactions with other earthworm species [34, 40-43]. In this way a relatively simple technique, the Earthworm Inoculation Unit (EIU), was devised seeking to overcome the problems associated with the existing techniques. Irreverently known as "worms in bags" this technique seeks to cultivate a starter culture of adults under optimal conditions over a period of a few months. After this time, population development within the plastic-bound units means that all life stages, adults, cocoons, and hatchlings ought to be present. The EIUs can then be transported to the desired inoculation site ready for introduction (see Figure 12). Inoculation requires the contents of the EIUs to be inserted into an appropriately sized hole in the soil, after the plastic envelope has been carefully removed.
tab3
Table 3: Relative Merits of existing Earthworm Inoculation Techniques (adapted from).
562816.fig.0012
Figure 12: Two litre Earthworm Inoculation Units (EIUs) ready for inoculation into an organically-enriched landfill cap in the south of England.

The contents thereby retaining their original position in the soil profile and providing a protective microenvironment. Over the past two decades, results from both agricultural and post-industrial settings have been positive [26, 48]. Spread of earthworms over one site at Calvert site was completed within a decade and positive interactions were recorded with the presence of alder trees (Alnus glutinosa - which fix nitrogen) and earthworm density. At one of the sites, further investigations developed the EIU technique with addition of organic matter. This was a response to use of manure as "earthworm attractant traps" to augment assessment of the numbers and species present on site.

Addition of earthworms to sites where they are absent (for some reason) may be valuable and permit a number of questions to be addressed.
(i) What factors brought about the removal of earthworms?(ii) What can be done to remedy the situation?(iii) How can the success of the operation be measured (in terms of earthworms and soils)? (iv) Can more be learned of earthworm populations from this type of work?
7. Conclusion

This article set out to demonstrate that low-technology methods are able to gain insights into fundamental questions relating to earthworms. Examples have been provided and direction given towards investigations asking relatively simple questions that can utilize these techniques. In addition to the sections described on collection, burrowing, behaviour, life history, and manipulation of earthworms, others which have only been hinted at or perhaps overlooked can also be developed, and many of those included have an amount of overlap within them. It is for the prospective researcher to identify the preferred niche area of investigation and progress it to potentially create a new angle within the existing fields of knowledge. Science tends to require funding in order to advance, but one critical aspect is the development of ideas and the creative use of available resources. Earthworm ecological research still has room for the use of basic tools.



The soil biota benefits soil productivity and contributes to the sustainable function of all ecosystems. The cycling of nutrients is a critical function that is essential to life on earth. Earthworms (EWs) are a major component of soil fauna communities in most ecosystems and comprise a large proportion of macrofauna biomass. Their activity is beneficial because it can enhance soil nutrient cycling through the rapid incorporation of detritus into mineral soils. In addition to this mixing effect, mucus production associated with water excretion in earthworm guts also enhances the activity of other beneficial soil microorganisms. This is followed by the production of organic matter. So, in the short term, a more significant effect is the concentration of large quantities of nutrients (N, P, K, and Ca) that are easily assimilable by plants in fresh cast depositions. In addition, earthworms seem to accelerate the mineralization as well as the turnover of soil organic matter. Earthworms are known also to increase nitrogen mineralization, through direct and indirect effects on the microbial community. The increased transfer of organic C and N into soil aggregates indicates the potential for earthworms to facilitate soil organic matter stabilization and accumulation in agricultural systems, and that their influence depends greatly on differences in land management practices. This paper summarises information on published data on the described subjects.
1. Introduction

Protection of the soil habitat is the first step towards sustainable management of its biological properties that determine long-term quality and productivity. It is generally accepted that soil biota benefits soil productivity but very little is known about the organisms that live in the soil and the functioning of the soil ecosystem. The role of earthworms (EWs) in soil fertility is known since 1881, when Darwin (1809-1882) published his last scientific book entitled "The formation of vegetable mould through the action of worms with observations on their habits.'' Since then, several studies have been undertaken to highlight the soil organisms contribution to the sustainable function of all ecosystems. Soil macrofauna, such as EWs, modify the soil and litter environment indirectly by the accumulation of their biogenic structures (casts, pellets, galleries, etc.) (Table 1). The cycling of nutrients is a critical ecosystem function that is essential to life on earth. Studies in the recent years have shown increasing interest in the development of productive farming systems with a high efficiency of internal resource use and thus lower input requirement and cost [2, 3]. At present, there is increasing evidence that soil macroinvertebrates play a key role in SOM transformations and nutrient dynamics at different spatial and temporal scales through perturbation and the production of biogenic structures for the improvement of soil fertility and land productivity [4, 5]. EWs are a major component of soil fauna communities in most natural ecosystems of the humid tropics and comprise a large proportion of macrofauna biomass. In cultivated tropical soils, where organic matter is frequently related to fertility and productivity, the communities of invertebrates - especially EWs - could play an important role in (SOM) dynamics by the regulation of the mineralization and humification processes [7-9].
tab1
Table 1: Some properties of casts of Pheretima alaxandri and their underlying soils with and without litter cover.

1.1. Functional Significance of Earthworms

The effects of EWs on soil biological processes and fertility level differ in ecological categories. Anecic species build permanent burrows into the deep mineral layers of the soil; they drag organic matter from the soil surface into their burrows for food. Endogeic species live exclusively and build extensive nonpermanent burrows in the upper mineral layer of soil, mainly ingested mineral soil matter, and are known as "ecological engineers,'' or "ecosystem engineers.'' They produce physical structures through which they can modify the availability or accessibility of a resource for other organisms. Epigeic species live on the soil surface, form no permanent burrows, and mainly ingest litter and humus, as well as on decaying organic matter, and do not mix organic and inorganic matter. In the majority of habitats and ecosystems (Table 2), it is usually a combination of these ecological categories which together or individually are responsible for maintaining the fertility of soils [15-17].
tab2
Table 2: Effect of land conversion and management practices on changes in functional catagories of earthworms in the Indo-Gangetic plains, ( SE, ).

1.2. Role of Earthworms in Nutrient Availability to Soil

EWs influence the supply of nutrients through their tissues but largely through their burrowing activities; they produce aggregates and pores (i.e., biostructures) in the soil and/or on the soil surface, thus affecting its physical properties, nutrient cycling, and plant growth [19, 20]. The biogenic structures constitute assemblages of organo-mineral aggregates. Their stability and the concentration of organic matter impact soil physical properties and SOM dynamics. Besides they affect some important soil ecological processes within their "functional domain'' [21, 22] where they concentrate nutrients and resources that are further exploited by soil microorganism communities [23, 24]. The effect of EWs on the dynamics of organic matter varies depending on the time and space scales considered. The activity of endogeic EWs in the humid tropical environment accelerates initial SOM turnover through indirect effects on soil C as determinants of microbial activity. Due to selective foraging of organic particles, gut contents are often enriched in organic matter, nutrients, and water compared with bulk soil and can foster high levels of microbial activity [26, 27]. They have been reported to enhance mineralization by first fragmenting SOM and then mixing it together with mineral particles and microorganisms, and thereby creating new surfaces of contact between SOM and microorganisms. In the short term, a more significant effect is the concentration of large quantities of nutrients (N, P, K, and Ca) that are easily assimilable by plants in fresh cast depositions. Most of these nutrients are derived from earthworm urine and mucus. In highly leached soils of humid tropics, earthworm activity is beneficial because of rapid incorporation of the detritus into the soils. In addition to this mixing effect, mucus production associated with water excretion in the earthworm gut is known to enhance the activity of microorganisms. This is followed by the production of organic matter. So fresh casts show high nutrient contents (Table 3). The chemical characteristics of casts differ from those of noningested soil and are rich in plant available nutrients. Upon cast deposition, microbial products, in addition to earthworm mucilages, bind soil particles and contribute to the formation of highly stable aggregates [33, 34]. Although EWs may speed up the initial breakdown of organic residues [35, 36], several studies have indicated that they may also stabilize SOM through its incorporation and protection in their casts [37-40]. Over longer periods of time, this enhanced microbial activity decreases when the casts dry, and aggregation is then reported to physically protect SOM against mineralization. Thus C mineralization rate decreases and mineralization of SOM from casts may be blocked for several months [37, 41]. It might become accessible again for the microflora once these are degraded into small fragments [42-44]. In addition EWs seem to accelerate the mineralization as well as the turnover of SOM. Furthermore, studies have also indicated that organic matter in the casts, once stabilized, can maintain this stabilization for many years [46, 47]. Nevertheless, chemical mechanisms may also contribute to the stabilization since evidence shows that the casts are held together by strong interactions between mineral soil particles and SOM that is enriched in bacterial polysaccharides and fungal hyphae [48, 49]. Earthworm casts are enriched in organic C and N, exceeding the C and N contents of the non ingested soil by a factor of 1.5, and 1.3, respectively (Table 4). This enrichment appears in all particle-size fractions, not restricted to certain organic compound dynamics of a cultivated soil. These results clearly indicate the direct involvement of EWs in providing protection of soil C in microaggregates within large macroaggregates leading to a possible long-term stabilization of soil C (Table 5). It has also been reported that EWs increase the incorporation of cover crop-derived C into macroaggregates, and more important, into microaggregates formed within macroaggregates. The increased transfer of organic C and N into soil aggregates indicates the potential for EWs to facilitate SOM stabilization and accumulation in agricultural systems.
tab3
Table 3: Variation in nutrient concentration of earthworm casts and noningested soils during cropping under shifting agriculture in North East India ( SE, ).
tab4
Table 4: Variation in nutrient concentration of earthworm casts and non ingested soils in abandoned agricultural fallows in North East India ( SE, ).
tab5
Table 5: C and N contents and C : N ratio in particle-size organic fractions in control soil and cast of Pontoscolex corethrurus ( SE).

EWs are known also to increase nitrogen mineralization, through direct and indirect effects on the microbial community (Table 6). Our studies on the role of EWs in the nitrogen cycling during the cropping phase of shifting agriculture in North East India showed (Table 7) that the total soil nitrogen made available for plants through the activity of EWs was higher than the total input of nitrogen to the soil through the addition of slashed vegetation, inorganic and organic manure, recycled crop residues, and weeds. An important role of EWs is the dramatic increase in soil pH as observed through our studies in shifting agroecosystem in North East India, in a sedentary terrace agroecosystem in central Himalayas, and in intensive agroecosystem in Indo-Gangetic plains. This increases microbial activity and N fixation in the soil, so that nitrogen in the worm cast may be due at least in part to this rather than to concentration by gain worms. Nitrogen mineralization by microflora is also quite intense in the earthworm gut and continues for several hours in fresh casts [55, 56], respectively, by incorporating organic matter into the soil and or by grazing the bacterial community. EWs have been found to either enhance or decrease bacterial biomass [57-59], and to stimulate bacterial activity [60, 61]. The influence of EWs on N cycling, however, appears also to be largely determined by cropping system type and the fertilizer applied (mineral versus organic). Various experimental studies suggest that EWs have potentially negative consequences on fertilizer-N retention studies. The earthworm species and species interactions present in the system also effect nitrogen mineralization and crop production. This may result in enhanced nitrogen immobilization or mineralization depending on species characteristics and substrate quality. The review thus highlights the important effects that EWs have on C and N cycling processes in agroecosystems and that their influence depends greatly on differences in management practices. Further the EWs can also increase nutrient availability in systems with reduced human influence and low nutrient status, that is, no tillage, reduced mineral fertilizer use, and low organic matter content [65-67]. The role of EWs in improving soil fertility is ancient knowledge which is now better explained by scientific results emerging from different studies. This is an important field of study where the research is directly linked to the social welfare. Every involved step requires appropriate protocols and reproducible results. This is a feedback mechanism where the technology adopted in the fields is further improved in the laboratories based on the feedback received from the technology adopters so as to provide more convincing information to technology adopters.
tab6
Table 6: Total and mineral nitrogen content in soil and fresh casts from earthworms incubated in different soil types (Barois et al., 1992).
tab7
Table 7: Nitrogen input/output budget during the cropping phase under 5- and 15-year Jhum cycle, ( SE, ).

2. Future Research Needs

Most of the studies conducted to assess the role of earthworm casting in nutrient cycling and soil structure are related to surface casting species, and only a few have dealt with casts deposited under field conditions [5, 18, 54]. To reach a better understanding of the ecological impact of in-soil casts, the assessment of nutrient dynamics in earthworm burrows and on the effect of in-soil casts on plant growth would be of immense help. For below-ground casting earthworm species, the ecological impact of their below-ground casts is likely to be as important as their surface casts in relation with nutrient availability, especially for biological management of degraded and disturbed ecosystems. Therefore more research is needed to be done in this area to complete our knowledge of the role of EWs in nutrient dynamics so as to evolve strategies for better soil management techniques.
3. Conclusions

Considering the potential contribution of EWs to soil fertility management, there is the need to consider them in agroecosystem management decisions. The EWs can specifically affect soil fertility that may be of great importance to increase sustainable land use in naturally degraded ecosystems as well as agroecosystems. Proper earthworm management may sustain crop yields whilst fertilizer inputs could be reduced. Since farming can involve many soil disturbing activities, the understanding of the biology and ecology of EWs will help devise management strategies that may impact soil biota and crop performance.



To meet the challenge of feeding a growing world population with minimal environmental impact, we need comprehensive and quantitative knowledge of ecological factors affecting crop production. Earthworms are among the most important soil dwelling invertebrates. Their activity affects both biotic and abiotic soil properties, in turn affecting plant growth. Yet, studies on the effect of earthworm presence on crop yields have not been quantitatively synthesized. Here we show, using meta-analysis, that on average earthworm presence in agroecosystems leads to a 25% increase in crop yield and a 23% increase in aboveground biomass. The magnitude of these effects depends on presence of crop residue, earthworm density and type and rate of fertilization. The positive effects of earthworms become larger when more residue is returned to the soil, but disappear when soil nitrogen availability is high. This suggests that earthworms stimulate plant growth predominantly through releasing nitrogen locked away in residue and soil organic matter. Our results therefore imply that earthworms are of crucial importance to decrease the yield gap of farmers who can't -or won't- use nitrogen fertilizer.
Introduction

Our global food production system faces the unprecedented challenge of feeding a rapidly increasing world population while simultaneously reducing its environmental footprint1. It is still far from clear whether such a "sustainable intensification"2 can be achieved. In particular, the question of what determines the yield gap between more sustainable forms of agriculture and those of conventional agriculture, and how to close that gap, is still widely debated3,4. Earthworms are generally thought to be essential to sustainable agroecosystems. They rank among the most important soil fauna, and as 'ecosystem engineers' they are instrumental to several ecosystem services the soil provides, such as nutrient cycling, drainage, and regulating greenhouse gas emissions5,6. However, it is their supposed ability to stimulate crop growth that might be of foremost relevance to agriculture. This ability was already suggested in an age before artificial fertilizers and mechanization provided a short-cut towards higher crop production7,8.

Although positive effects of earthworms on plant growth have been repeatedly described9,10, quantitative proof has remained elusive, and mechanisms through which it might be exerted have never been satisfactorily established. Yet, this information is essential to determine whether earthworms can help to fill the yield gap between sustainable and conventional agriculture. Such an effort has previously been hampered by the wide variety of conditions (climate, soil fertility, crop types, earthworm species and farm management) under which the effects of earthworms have been studied, making it difficult to determine the global effect of earthworms response from individual observations. A quantitative synthesis of results across multiple studies can overcome this problem. Here, for the first time, we use meta-analysis to summarize the effect of earthworms on plant production across the globe (see Methods). We collected 462 data points from 58 studies that were published between 1910-2013 (Supplementary Table 1). Studies include the three main global staple crops (maize, rice and wheat), pastures, as well as many other food crops and were conducted on all continents except Antarctica.

We assessed the generality of the effect of earthworm presence on six key plant response variables: (1) crop yield; (2) aboveground biomass; (3) belowground biomass; (4) total biomass; (5) shoot/root ratio (as a proxy for carbon allocation towards harvestable products); and (6) nitrogen (N) concentration in aboveground biomass (as a proxy for crop quality) (Supplementary Tables 2-5). Earthworm presence significantly increased crop yield by +25%, aboveground biomass by +23%, belowground biomass by +20% and total biomass by +21% (Fig. 1). Shoot/root ratio was not significantly different from zero, indicating no proof of altered carbon allocation towards aboveground plant parts11. Nitrogen concentration in aboveground biomass was also unaffected by earthworm presence (Fig. 1), indicating that crop quality was maintained.
Figure 1: Results of a meta-analysis on the effect of earthworm presence on yield, aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, total biomass, shoot/root ratio and N concentration of aboveground biomass.
Figure 1

Effect sizes in all meta-analyses were weighted by the inverse of the pooled variance. The number of observations in each class is shown between parentheses; error bars denote the 95% confidence range.
Full size image

Because previous studies suggested that the effect of earthworms differs between crop types9, we tested the effect of earthworm presence on aboveground biomass of the major grain crops and ryegrass. Aboveground biomass was significantly increased in all crops (Fig. 2a), averaging +31% across all grain crops, and +24% across all pasture grasses (Fig. 2b).
Figure 2: Influence of crop species, crop type and pasture type on the effect of earthworm presence on aboveground biomass, (a-c).
Figure 2

Influence of crop species (a), type of crop/grasses (b) and type of pasture (c) on the effect of earthworm presence. Effect sizes in all meta-analyses were weighted by the inverse of the pooled variance. The number of observations in each class is shown between parentheses; error bars denote the 95% confidence range.
Full size image

How do earthworms stimulate plant production? Brown et al.12 proposed 5 possible pathways through which earthworm can positively affect plant growth: (i) biocontrol of pests and diseases; (ii) stimulation of microbial plant symbionts; (iii) production of plant-growth regulating substances; (iv) soil structure changes; and (v) increased nutrient availability. The last two mechanisms were the most consistently mentioned in early literature7. More recent studies suggested earthworm-induced regulation of plant defence mechanisms as additional pathways13,14,15.

However, our results suggest that increased N availability is a dominant pathway by which earthworms stimulate plant growth. We tested this by splitting our data according to fertilizer N application rates (Fig. 3a). When application rates exceeded 30 kg N ha-1 yr-1, the earthworm effect decreased from +19% to +9% and was not significantly different from zero anymore, suggesting that earthworms stimulate plant growth by increasing N mineralization. The effect of earthworms on plant growth in studies applying organic (N) fertilizer (+34%) was significantly stronger than in studies applying inorganic fertilizer (+10%) or no fertilizer (+20%), further implicating increased N mineralization as a major pathway (Fig. 4). Our results are consistent with studies showing the potential of earthworms to increase N mineralization from crop residues and soil organic matter, depending on earthworm community and environmental conditions16,17.
Figure 3: Influence of N fertilization rate and crop residue application rate on the effect of earthworm presence on aboveground biomass, (a-b).
Figure 3

Influence of fertilizer N rate (a) and crop residue application rate (b) on the effect of earthworm presence. N fertilization rates include both chemical and organic (manure) fertilizer. Effect sizes in all meta-analyses were weighted by the inverse of the pooled variance. The number of observations in each class is shown between parentheses; error bars denote the 95% confidence range.
Full size image
Figure 4: Influence of climate, soil- and experimental parameters on the effect of earthworm presence on aboveground biomass.
Figure 4

The number of observations in each class is shown between parentheses; error bars denote the 95% confidence range.
Full size image

If N mineralization is the main pathway, the positive effect of earthworms should be smaller for plants capable of symbiotic N2 fixation. Indeed, for the legume crops in our dataset the earthworm effect ceased to be significant (Fig. 2b). Furthermore, when legumes were present in pastures, the effect of earthworms on pasture productivity disappeared altogether (Fig. 2c).

It is still unclear whether there is any effect of earthworms on nutrients other than N. Although it has been suggested that earthworms increase P availability in their casts18,19, this has not yet been shown to affect plant growth in experimental studies. Legumes, despite their larger need for P than grasses, did not show a positive effect of earthworm presence (Fig. 2b & 2c), which is consistent with a minor role for earthworms on P mobilization.

Both soil organic matter and plant residues can potentially serve as substrates for N mineralization facilitated by earthworms17. To distinguish between the two, we subdivided our dataset in different residue application rate classes (Fig. 3b). Although the earthworm effect on aboveground biomass peaked with +50% at the highest residue application rate, the effect stabilized around +21% at nil and very low residue application rates. This indicates that both soil organic matter and plant residue are sources for earthworm-induced mineralization. Because it has been often suggested that decaying earthworm tissues may be responsible for the observed increased plant N uptake20, we tested for the effect of earthworm survival (Fig. 5a). Earthworm presence did not significantly increase crop yield in experiments with survival rates lower than 50%; therefore the N effect is not an artefact related to decomposing earthworm tissue. This is in line with calculations on the contributions of N released from decaying earthworm tissue in previous experimental studies21, as well as with studies conducted with control treatments receiving dead earthworms22.
Figure 5: Influence of earthworm survival, earthworm density and earthworm ecological category on the effect of earthworm presence on aboveground biomass, (a-c).
Figure 5

Influence of earthworm survival during experiment (a), earthworm density (b) earthworm ecological group (c) on the effect of earthworm presence. The number of observations in each class is shown between parentheses; error bars denote the 95% confidence range.
Full size image

Although earthworm density had a highly significant effect on aboveground plant biomass, only the highest densities (>400 individuals m-2) differed significantly from lower densities (Fig. 5b). The effect under realistic earthworm densities varied between +10 and +21%. The positive effect was present for all three ecological categories of earthworms that are traditionally distinguished (Fig. 5c).

In experiments where soil was disturbed (that is, homogenized and repacked) prior to the start of the experiment, the earthworm effect on aboveground biomass was almost twice as high as in undisturbed soils (Fig. 4). This result may reflect a beneficial effect of earthworms on restoring the demolished soil structure. As soil structure will be restored after some time, a positive effect of earthworms on plant growth through their effect on soil structure is likely to be a transient effect after soil tillage operations (Fig. 4). Although some studies reported an additional effect of earthworms on plant growth through improving soil structure in undisturbed soil22,23, it generally was difficult to distinguish this effect from increased nutrient availability21. The fact that all three ecological earthworm categories (anecic, epigeic and endogeic), each with distinct burrowing and casting behaviour23,24, had a positive effect on plant growth also argues against soil structure improvement as a major pathway, and in favour of enhanced nutrient mineralisation.

Significant positive earthworm effects occur across a range of climate regions, soil textures, soil organic matter contents and soil C/N ratios (Fig. 4). No significant differences were detected between categories of soil organic matter content, possibly because soil organic matter quality was not taken into account. In higher pH soils, the earthworm effect is significantly smaller than in lower pH soils. This may be a confounding effect, since the high pH soils were often linked to systems with low or nil application of residues or organic manure. Earthworm effects were strongest in soils with clay texture and not significant in sandy soils (Fig. 4). This is in marked contrast with an earlier review9 where largest beneficial earthworm effects in tropical regions were achieved on soils with sandy texture.

Which cropping systems would benefit most from earthworms? Because improving N supply in N-limited systems is the main pathway through which earthworms increase plant growth, earthworms are likely to be most beneficial in infertile soils. However, this raises a paradox, because earthworms thrive best in fertile soils with high soil organic matter levels. The paradox disappears in the case of relatively poor soils that depend on crop residue application to maintain soil fertility levels. In those soils, crop residues can serve as food for earthworms and earthworms can increase crop production through increasing N mineralization. This combination of poor soils and reliance on crop residue is particularly found in low-input farming systems in the tropics, and to a lesser extent in organic farming systems in the developed world25.

Yet, these systems vary dramatically in terms of habitat quality for earthworms26. In low-input systems in the tropics, low residue quality and residue supply are most likely to be the constraining factor for reaching the full potential of earthworm activity27. Research in these systems should therefore be aimed at judicious use of the limited residue resources available28. Organic farming systems, on the other hand, typically have large application rates of organic manure or high-quality crop residues, providing excellent conditions for earthworm activity29. In those systems, earthworm activity might be crucial in closing the yield gap with conventional agriculture4. Future research in these systems should therefore focus on management strategies to increase earthworm populations. More generally speaking, management practices aimed at sustainable intensification of agriculture should take into account their effect on the earthworm population, because their presence stimulates crop production and will help to bridge the yield gap with conventional agriculture.
Methods
Data compilation

A literature search of peer-reviewed publications published before June 2013 reporting results on the influence of earthworms on plant growth was performed using the ISI-Web of Science research database. We investigated the effect of earthworms on six main response variables concerning plant growth: crop yield, aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, total biomass, shoot/root ratio and N concentration of the aboveground biomass. We used the following search term:

earthworm$ AND (plant biomass OR plant yield OR plant production OR plant growth) AND (crop$ OR grassland$)

We selected the timespan 'all years'. When we found references in these papers to peer-reviewed publications that were too old to be included in the ISI database, we included them as well when they fitted our selection criteria. We included primary studies in agroecosystems in either temperate/continental or tropical/subtropical climate zones. For annual plants we included studies that reported plant harvest data after a clearly defined experimental period; in the case of multiple harvests over a longer time span of one or more years, we estimated the experimental period for each harvest separately. For perennial plants we included studies that reported harvest data after an explicitly reported experimental period; in the case of an experimental period of multiple years, we expressed harvest data as annual yield.

After carefully checking all of the query results, a total of 58 papers published between 1910 and 2013 fitted our selection criteria for the meta-analysis (Supplementary Table 1). The resulting database covered 130 side by side comparisons of soils with and without earthworms (observations) from 16 papers for crop yield, 378 comparisons from 52 papers for aboveground biomass, 201 comparisons from 35 papers for belowground biomass, 169 comparisons from 27 papers for total biomass, 173 comparisons from 29 papers for shoot/root ratio, and 71 comparisons from 12 papers for the N concentration of the aboveground biomass.

For each observation within every study we collected the means of the control treatment (that is, without earthworm presence) and the experimental treatment (that is, with earthworm presence), as well as their standard deviation (SD) and replicate numbers (n). Field studies that had earthworms excluded from their control treatment (for instance, by electro-shocking) were only included when explicitly reported earthworm numbers from these control treatments did not exceed 10% of the earthworm densities in experimental treatments. For studies that did not report SD or SE (standard error; SD = SE x vn) we calculated the average coefficient of variation (CV) for control treatments and experimental treatments, and then approximated the missing SD by multiplying the reported mean by the average CV30,31. When data in the original publication were presented graphically, we estimated values from manually digitized figures. Unidentified error bars were, again conservatively, assumed to denote SE rather than SD. In a few cases, we contacted the authors to obtain unpublished SDs (see Acknowledgements).

For the earthworm effect on plant growth, we considered three groups of controlling factors: plant factors, earthworm factors, and experimental factors. Table 1 lists the three groups of controlling factors, as well as the subgroups we identified for our analysis that were based on these factors. Factors such as land management strategy, soil moisture content or phosphorus uptake by the plants were also considered, but the range of these parameters published across studies was too narrow to be included in our meta-analysis. For the plant factors we distinguished between most commonly studied crops (that is, ryegrass, barley, maize, wheat, rice), as well as groups of crops (that is, grasses, grain crops, legumes). In order to discern the effect of symbiotic N fixation, pastures were divided into pastures with or without legumes. For the earthworm factors we distinguished between the three earthworm ecological categories (that is, anecic, epigeic and endogeic) that are typically distinguished32, and a fourth subgroup encompassing studies on mixtures of these categories.
Table 1: Controlling factors of earthworm-induced effects and their classes
Full size table

Earthworm densities were divided into four subgroups, representing low, intermediate, high and very high densities. These were based on the range of densities that can be found in agroecosystems throughout the world, including arable fields and pastures in tropical and subtropical33 and temperate regions34, as well as artificial densities generally only employed in experiments.

We also categorized studies according to earthworm survival rate, distinguishing between <50%, 50-90% and >90% survival. For experimental factors we distinguished between temperate/continental and tropical/subtropical climates. Soil texture of the bulk soil used in the included studies was categorized in three subgroups (sandy, loamy, clayey) according to textural classes as defined by the USDA35. We divided studies into three subgroups based on soil organic carbon content (<15 g C kg-1, 15-30 g C kg-1, >30 g C kg-1). Studies were split into two subgroups according to critical soil C/N ratios within the context of N mineralization and immobilization, as described by Hodge et al.36 (<12.5 and =12.5). Studies were categorized in three subgroups of soil pH (<5.6, 5.6-7.0, >7.0) based on earlier work on the effect of earthworms on plant growth9. Soil pre-treatment was taken into account by dividing the studies in two subgroups: disturbed (re-packed soil) and undisturbed (intact soil columns or field plots). Within undisturbed soil we further distinguished between experiments where treatments were installed by applying earthworms to earthworm treatments (indicating an absence of a significant native earthworm population) and those where treatments were installed by reducing earthworm numbers in control treatments (indicating a significant earthworm population that might have affected soil properties prior to the experiment). We distinguished between four types of N fertilizer application (inorganic, organic, both and none) and two fertilizer application rates (=30 kg N ha-1 yr-1 and >30 kg N ha-1 yr-1), the cut-off value being determined by maximum atmospheric N depositions in the United States and most of the European Union, following Van Groenigen et al.37. Finally, we divided studies into four subgroups of residue application rates (0 kg C ha-1 yr-1, 0-2999 kg C ha-1 yr-1, 3000-5999 kg C ha-1 yr-1, =6000 kg C ha-1 yr-1). These represent the lower and upper spectrum of residue application rates in agroecosystems, ranging from systems where most of the residues are removed (e.g. for biofuel production or construction), via relatively low residue application rates typical of low input systems in developing countries, and high residue application rates typical for high input systems in the developed world, to crops producing large amounts of residues (for instance, sugarcane)38.

Most studies comprised several treatments with and without the presence of earthworms, resulting in more than one observation per study. Not all studies provided information on each controlling factor and therefore the number of observations per controlling factor was not always identical to the total number of observations. Results from subgroups of the controlling factors were considered suitable for meta-analysis when a minimum of 10 observations out of at least two independent studies were available.
Meta-analysis

The magnitude of the earthworm-induced effect on the six main response variables in each study was calculated as the natural logarithm of the response ratio (R)39:where E and C are the means of experimental and control groups, respectively. Response ratios that were either more than five standard deviations above or below the mean were considered outliers and not included in further calculations.

Because the results of a meta-analysis may depend on how individual studies are weighted40, we used one parametric and three different non-parametric weighting functions in our analyses. For every observation, weights were calculated by using the following functions:

    Weighting by the inverse of the pooled variance, the weighting function conventionally used in meta-analysis41:where SDE and SDC are the standard deviations from the experimental and control groups, respectively; NE and NC are the sample sizes for the experimental and control groups, respectively; and E and C are the means of experimental and control groups, respectively.

    Weighting by assigning an equal weight to each observation (unweighted):where S is the total number of observations included in the study where the appointed observation came from.

    Weighting by sample size:where NE and NC are the sample sizes for the experimental and control groups, respectively, and S is the total number of observations included in the study where the appointed observation came from.

    Weighting by the inverse of the pooled variance, adjusted by the total number of observations in a certain study:with VP as in weight #1), and S as the total number of observations included in the study where the appointed observation came from.

In the parametric meta-analysis (that is, using weight #1), each individual observation was weighted by the reciprocal of the mixed-model variance, which was the sum of the variance of the natural log of the response ratio and the pooled within-class variance. We calculated 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of the mean effect sizes according to Hedges and Olkin41. To test whether controlling factors altered the effect of earthworm presence, the data were divided into subgroups as described above. To test whether mean effect sizes differed between subgroups, we used the approach by Curtis and Wang42. Briefly, the total heterogeneity (Qt) was partitioned into within-class heterogeneity (Qw) and between class heterogeneity (Qb). Data were then subdivided according to levels of those categorical variables revealing significant Qb values (Supplementary Tables 2-5).

For the non-parametric analyses (that is, weights #2-4), we generated mean effect sizes and 95% CIs by running a bootstrapping procedure with 5000 iterations. The results for the analyses on ln R (mean effects and CIs) were back-transformed and reported as percentage change of the earthworm effect ([R-1]*100) to ease interpretation. For both the non-parametric and the parametric analyses, the mean earthworm effect was considered significant when the 95% confidence interval did not overlap with 0. Mean earthworm effects for different subgroups were considered to be significantly different from one another if their 95% confidence intervals did not overlap. For the parametric analyses, both the heterogeneity test had to indicate significance and the 95% CIs of study categories had to show no overlap for us to conclude that a categorical variable had a significant impact on the earthworm effect.

The potential for publication bias in this quantitative review was examined through a normal quantile plot. Normal quantile plots were produced for two main response variables, crop yield and aboveground biomass, because the results of this review are mainly based on analyses of these two response variables (Supplementary Fig. 1 & 2). Additionally, Rosenthal's method for calculation of a fail-safe number was added to the plots, indicating the number of non-significant, unpublished, or missing studies that would need to be added to the meta-analysis to change the results from significant to nonsignificant43. Both normal quantile plots as well as the fail-safe numbers suggest that our observed results can be treated as a reliable estimate of the true effect. All analyses were performed in METAWIN 2.144



Earthworms are the best known and, in many situations, the most important animals that live in soil. Over 3500 earthworm species have been described worldwide, and it is estimated that further surveys will reveal this number to be much larger (Reynolds 1994, Fragoso et al. 1999). Distinct taxonomic groups of earthworms have arisen on every continent except Antarctica, and, through human transport, some groups have been distributed worldwide (Jamieson 1988, Reynolds 1994). The earthworm fauna of North America, including Canada, the continental United States, Mexico, and the islands of the Caribbean, consists of both native (Nearctic and Neotropical) and exotic species imported from many other regions of the world (Fender 1995, Fragoso et al. 1995, James 1995, Reynolds 1995). Any given locality may be inhabited by all native species, all exotic species, a combination of native and exotic species, or by no earthworms at all. Relative abundance and species composition of local fauna depend greatly on soil, climate, vegetation, topography, land use history, and especially on past invasions by exotic species.

Much of our knowledge of the earthworm fauna of North America is based on the work of Gordon E. Gates who, over a 60-year career, collected, described, and cataloged many of the currently recognized taxa, both native and exotic. Beginning in 1949, Gates collaborated with the US Department of Agriculture (USDA), Bureau of Plant Quarantine (now Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, or APHIS) to intercept oligochaetes found in "plant-associated materials" (mostly soil) being imported into the United States. Over a 32-year period (1950-1982), Gates (1976, 1982) acquired thousands of specimens and was able to determine that earthworms from all over the world were continually being imported. There is no reason to expect that this situation has changed since 1982. Indeed, as with exotic plants, fungi, and insects (Ruesink et al. 1995, Campbell 2001, Mack and Lonsdale 2001), growing global commerce may be increasing the likelihood that exotic earthworms will be introduced, both inadvertently with the importation of soil-containing materials (e.g., agricultural and horticultural products; Gates 1976, 1982, Boag and Yeates 2001, Ehrenfeld and Scott 2001) and intentionally for use in commercial applications (e.g., waste management and land bioremediation; Lee 1995, Edwards 1998). Because previous invasions by exotic earthworms have had significant impacts on soil processes and plant communities in native ecosystems (e.g., Alban and Berry 1994, Groffman and Bohlen 1999, Hale et al. 2000), there may be reason for concern over continued unrestricted importation of earthworms.

Regulatory activities have not been effective in reducing earthworm introductions in most areas of the world (Boag and Yeates 2001), probably because legal restrictions traditionally have not targeted earthworms or their propagules. There presently are no specific regulations concerning earthworm imports into the United States. Earthworm importations are regulated by APHIS under the Federal Plant Pest Act because of the potential for introduction of exotic plant pathogens in their guts and in soil that might accompany them (Tracy A. Horner, USDA APHIS, personal communication, 3 January 2002). The recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Europe has heightened concern about earthworm imports, because some species may be vectors for that viral pathogen and others (Edwards and Bohlen 1996, Jamieson 2000). APHIS is now considering guidelines specifically for the importation of earthworms into the United States. In this article, which is derived from a report prepared recently for APHIS, we review the status of earthworms in North America, address problems associated with exotic earthworm invasions, and discuss criteria for assessing potential risks of earthworm importation.

Native earthworms in North America

Earthworms are classified within the phylum Annelida, class Clitellata, subclass Oligochaeta, order Opisthophora. According to Jamieson (1988), there are 16 families worldwide (table 1). Six of these families (cohort Aquamegadrili plus suborder Alluroidina) comprise aquatic or semiaquatic worms, whereas the other 10 (cohort Terrimegadrili) consist of the terrestrial forms commonly known as earthworms. Two families (Lutodrilidae and Komarekionidae, both monospecific) and genera from three or four others (Sparganophilidae, Lumbricidae, Megascolecidae, and possibly Ocnerodrilidae) are Nearctic (Jamieson 1988, James 1995). No native earthworms have been reported from Canada east of the Pacific Northwest or from Alaska or Hawaii, although exotic species now occur in all of these regions. Native earthworms in the families Ocnerodrilidae, Glossoscolecidae, and Megascolecidae occur in Mexico and the Caribbean islands. Fragoso and colleagues (1995, 1999) discuss native and exotic earthworms in the south Nearctic and north Neotropical regions. In this article, we focus on the Nearctic region north of Mexico.

Pleistocene glaciations are thought to have eliminated the earthworm fauna from most of Canada and the northern portion of the continental United States (Gates 1970). The southern limits of defaunation at the peak of the Wisconsinan glaciation may have extended to the edge of permafrost, a significant distance beyond the ice terminus (Gates 1970, Pielou 1991). Glacial refugia apparently remained along the Pacific Coast, where a number of native genera in the families Mega scolecidae and Sparganophilidae now occur (Fender and McKey-Fender 1990, Fender 1995), and in the eastern United States, where all of the other Nearctic groups occur (figure 1; Gates 1982, James 1995). Colonization of previously glaciated areas was apparently slow, and few native earthworms inhabited northern regions of North America at the time of European settlement (Gates 1967).

Approximately 70 species of native earthworms have been described from the eastern United States and another 28 species from the Pacific region (table 2). An isolated group of megascolecids has recently been described in southern California, possibly as a relict of previously more widespread groups (Wood et al. 1997). With further surveys, more species will very likely be described in all of these regions (James 1995). North America thus has a rich and diverse indigenous earthworm fauna, which probably reaches its highest species diversity and exerts its greatest influence on soil processes in forest and grassland ecosystems (Fender 1995, Fragoso et al. 1995, James 1995, Kalisz and Wood 1995, Hendrix 1996). Remnants of native ecosystems in unglaciated areas have shown the most pristine communities of native earthworms, but the relative importance of these species in disturbed and intensively managed ecosystems has received little study. Habitat alteration and introduction of exotic earthworms may have reduced the abundance and ecological importance of native species.

Exotic earthworms in North America

In addition to the 100 or more native earthworm species in North America north of Mexico, at least 45 exotic species have been introduced (Gates 1976, 1982, Reynolds 1995). Exotics include European Lumbricidae (25 species); African (2 species), Asian (14 species of the "pheretimoid" group), and South American (2 species) Megascolecidae; African Eudrilidae (1 species); and South American Glossoscolecidae (at least 1 species) and Ocnerodrilidae (2 species). It is possible that other species, including some from other families, have been introduced but not yet reported in the literature.

As with insect introductions into North America (Simberloff 1989), the preponderance of European species of earthworms is probably due to habitat similarities in these generally temperate regions and to historically high levels of commerce between them. European Lumbricidae are the most common exotic earthworms north of the glacial margins, and several species have become notorious for their effects on forest floors in northern forests formerly devoid of earthworms (Alban and Berry 1994, Scheu and Parkinson 1994, McLean and Parkinson 1997, Hale et al. 2000). The Asian megascolecid (Amynthas sp.) also is invading forests in the northeastern United States (Steinberg et al. 1997, Burtelow et al. 1998, Groffman and Bohlen 1999). Most of the nonlumbricid exotic species in North America occur in the southeastern and Pacific regions of the United States. In general, exotic earthworm distributions are patchy across the continent and appear to overlap with distributions of native species. There is debate as to whether exotic earthworms displace native earthworms in undisturbed habitats (Kalisz and Wood 1995).

Ecological considerations

Earthworms occur in a wide range of habitats where soil water and temperature are favorable for at least part of the year; across this range, they display a variety of adaptations to environmental conditions. Even in unsuitable regions, earthworms may inhabit local microsites where conditions are favorable (e.g., urban gardens, desert oases), especially if well-adapted species have been introduced. Within habitats, earthworms often show clumped spatial distributions that correspond to such factors as vegetation, soil texture, or soil organic matter content. Feeding behavior, in particular, dictates horizontal and vertical distributions of earthworm species within a soil volume and determines their effects on soil processes.

Ecological "strategies" of earthworms.

Several earthworm species (typically a half-dozen or less) may coexist at a given location by partitioning available resources in the soil. Different feeding strategies result from a variety of behavioral, morphological, or physiological adaptations (Lee 1985, Barois et al. 1999): Epigeic, epi-endogeic and epi-anecic species inhabit and feed on litter and organically enriched surface layers of soil; poly-, meso-, and oligohumic and endo-anecic endogeic species inhabit mineral soil within the rhizosphere and beyond; and anecic species feed on surface litter but reside in burrows in the mineral soil (table 3). Furthermore, these feeding activities influence how different earthworm species affect soil processes. For example, epigeic species facilitate the breakdown and mineralization of surface litter, while anecic species incorporate surface litter deeper into the soil profile and enhance aeration and water infiltration through their deep vertical burrows (Lee 1985, Edwards and Bohlen 1996). Understanding the ecological role of invasive species is key to predicting their potential effects on soil processes and on other organisms.

Beneficial effects of earthworms.

Concern over potentially harmful effects of exotic earthworms runs counter to the general view of earthworms being beneficial to soils. Darwin (1881) was the first to show that earthworms significantly influence soil processes important to the functioning of terrestrial ecosystems. Subsequent research, mainly in agricultural and pastoral systems, has shown that earthworms often have favorable effects on soils, particularly in systems under conservation management (e.g., no tillage). Earthworm activity has been reported to speed rates of plant litter decomposition, increase nutrient transformation and plant nutrient uptake, improve soil aggregation and porosity, and enhance water infiltration and solute transport (Satchell 1983, Lee 1985, Hendrix 1995, Edwards and Bohlen 1996, Edwards 1998, Lavelle et al. 1999). Where earthworms are abundant, direct fluxes of nutrients through their biomass can be considerable; for example, up to 150 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare per year have been reported to turn over in earthworm tissues (Lee 1985). Studies in managed grassland have shown that earthworm activity results in an increase in forage quantity and quality in reclaimed polders in the Netherlands (Hoogerkamp et al. 1983) and in subtropical pastures in Australia (Blakemore 1997). Beneficial effects of earthworms on plant growth may come about through increased nutrient and water availability, stimulation of microorganisms that enhance plant growth, or possibly through direct production of substances that promote plant growth (Edwards and Bohlen 1996, Lavelle et al. 1999).

Earthworms and their activities have been put to a number of uses, including processing of organic wastes through vermicomposting, which has become a sizable industry in North America (Edwards 1998, Lavelle et al. 1999); restoration of degraded soils, using earthworms as agents of bioremediation (Satchell 1983, Lee 1995, Edwards and Bohlen 1996); and culturing or harvesting of earthworms for fishing bait, which has reached a large economic scale in the United States and Canada (Edwards and Bohlen 1996). These enterprises are responsible for much of the commercial distribution of earthworms and mostly involve a few exotic, anthropochorus species (i.e., those adapted to and often introduced into human-managed ecosystems) in the families Lumbricidae, Glossoscolecidae, and Eudrilidae. Many of these species are now established in North America, either in contained vermiculture or as naturalized populations in the wild. These commercial interests also appear to be the major source of demand for importation of exotic earthworm species (Tracy A. Horner, USDA APHIS, personal communication, 3 January 2002).

Detrimental effects of earthworms.

Despite the many documented and putative beneficial effects of earthworms on soil structure, nutrient dynamics, and plant growth, some aspects of earthworm activities are considered undesirable (Edwards and Bohlen 1996, Lavelle et al. 1998, Parmelee et al. 1998). Detrimental activities include removing and burying of surface residues, which would otherwise protect soil surfaces from erosion; producing fresh casts that increase erosion and surface sealing; increasing compaction of surface soils; depositing castings on the surface of lawns and golf greens, where they are a nuisance; dispersing weed seeds in gardens and agricultural fields; transmitting plant or animal pathogens; riddling irrigation ditches, making them less able to carry water; increasing losses of soil nitrogen through leaching and denitrification; and increasing loss of soil carbon through enhanced microbial respiration.

It is the net result of positive and negative effects of earthworms that determines whether they have detrimental impacts on ecosystems (Lavelle et al. 1998). Obviously, an effect such as mixing of organic and mineral soil horizons may be considered beneficial in one setting (e.g., urban gardens) and detrimental in another (e.g., native forests). The undesirable impacts of exotic species are central to assessing the risks associated with their introduction and spread.

Impacts of exotic earthworms

The major concerns about exotic earthworms have been the potential for certain species to invade new habitats and, once established, the effects they may have on other organisms and soil processes within those habitats (Alban and Berry 1994, Dalby et al. 1998, Hale et al. 2000).

Exotic earthworm invasions.

As observed for many other exotic species (e.g., Simberloff 1989, Williamson 1996, Mack and Lonsdale 2001), the principal mechanism for the introduction of exotic earthworms into new areas has been through human migration and commerce over the past several centuries (Gates 1967, Lee 1985). Historically, introductions were probably unintentional - for example, earthworms may have been in soil dumped from ship's ballast or in imported plant roots - but more recently, earthworms have also been imported and distributed intentionally. Once imported, there is a potential for exotic earthworms to become established and invade wherever they are released or allowed to escape into the environment. Whether or not they become pests depends on circumstances, such as the type of ecosystem they invade and their effects on soil processes or other species.

In North America, the most dramatic effects of exotic earthworm invasions on soil processes have been in areas previously devoid of earthworms (e.g., north of Pleistocene glacial margins). Gates (1967) reviewed two early accounts of exotic earthworm effects on soil properties. In one case, introduced Lumbricus terrestris reportedly obliterated soil horizonation to a depth of approximately 1 meter over a six-county area (> 3000 km2) in South Dakota; in another, the upper soil horizons in a cut-over forest site in New Brunswick, Canada, were mixed by introduced Aporrectodea tuberculata and L. terrestris during a 4-year period. More recently, significant effects of exotic earthworms on soil profiles, on nutrient and organic matter dynamics, on other soil organisms, or on plant communities have been reported in chaparral in southern California (Graham and Wood 1991); tallgrass prairie in Kansas (James 1991, Callaham et al. 2001); temperate forests in Minnesota (Alban and Berry 1994, Hale et al. 2000), New York (Steinberg et al. 1997, Burtelow et al. 1998, Groffman and Bohlen 1999), New Jersey (Kourtev et al. 1999), and Alberta, Canada (Scheu and Parkinson 1994, McLean and Parkinson 1997). Significant effects of exotic earthworms in terrestrial ecosystems have also been reported in other parts of the world (Stockdill 1982, Hoogerkamp et al. 1983, Lee 1985, Zou 1993, Edwards and Bohlen 1996, Edwards 1998, Lavelle et al. 1999).

In most of these ecosystems, exotic earthworms apparently were introduced inadvertently at some time in the past and effects observed over a period of years to decades. In Minnesota, several species of European lumbricids formed successive "wave fronts" across the forest floor, led by Dendrobaena octaedra, followed by Lumbricus rubellus, Aporrectodea spp., and lastly by L. terrestris. These species apparently dispersed into the forests from nearby lakeshores where, over several decades, they were released as fishing bait (Hale et al. 2000). Similar effects on soil processes have been reported for a mixed assemblage of European lumbricids in association with exotic plant species introduced into parklands in New Jersey (Kourtev et al. 1999). Both of these situations, in which one exotic species facilitates invasion by another, are examples of "invasional meltdown," described by Simberloff and von Holle (1999).

Competitive exclusion or ecosystem disturbance.

Since the time of early observations, there has been debate over mechanisms by which exotic earthworms become dominant in certain ecosystems (Eisen 1900, Stebbings 1962). In many of the cases cited above, exotic species invaded ecosystems previously devoid of earthworms. In areas inhabited by native earthworms, exotic invasions often are preceded by disturbance of soils or vegetation (e.g., Kalisz and Dotson 1989, Fragoso et al. 1995, 1999, Callaham and Blair 1999). Although competitive exclusion of native earthworms by exotic ones has been postulated, little direct evidence of this can be found. Kalisz and Wood (1995) suggested four stages in the establishment of exotic earthworm populations in soils inhabited by native species: (1) habitat disturbance, (2) extirpation or reduction of native populations, (3) introduction of exotic species, and (4) colonization of vacant niche space by exotic species. Even in the absence of obvious habitat disturbance, some minimum habitat patch size may be required to maintain native earthworm assemblages; increased edges and potential vectors for invasion by exotic species into small ecosystem remnants may lead to displacement of native populations (Kalisz and Wood 1995). Thus, as with other exotic species (Williamson 1996), the principal mechanism for displacement of native earthworm populations is assumed to be habitat alteration rather than direct competition, although the relative contributions of these two factors remain to be clarified.

Interestingly, the most dramatic effects of exotic earthworms on soil processes have not been reported from areas inhabited by native earthworms, particularly where soils and vegetation are undisturbed. In some cases where invasions have occurred, native species have remained dominant over exotic species (Fragoso et al. 1995, 1999, Callaham and Blair 1999, Bhadauria et al. 2000). In deciduous forests in Kentucky, only native earthworms occur in undisturbed or slightly disturbed sites, whereas exotic species occur only in severely disturbed sites (Kalisz and Dotson 1989). Microcosm studies indicate that the European lumbricid Aporrectodea longa cannot successfully invade forest soils inhabited by native megascolecid earthworms in South Australia (Dalby et al. 1998). Studies of an invasion of European lumbricids into a tallgrass prairie in Kansas suggest competitive displacement of native Diplocardia spp. by exotic Aporrectodea spp. in disturbed areas but continued dominance of the native species under natural conditions. It has been suggested that native earthworms are better adapted than invading European lumbricids to local soil and climatic conditions and hence maintain longer periods of activity and effects on nutrient dynamics in prairie soils (James 1991, Callaham and Blair 1999, Callaham et al. 2001). These observations suggest that certain endemic earthworm fauna or characteristics of their native habitats or both may be resistant to invasion by some exotic earthworm species and, consequently, may reduce the impact of exotic species on soil processes. The possibility of biotic resistance (Simberloff 1989, Williamson 1996) in the context of earthworm invasions deserves further research.

Exotic earthworms as disease vectors.

There have been reports of earthworms transmitting pathogens, either as passive carriers or as intermediate hosts (Lee 1985, Edwards and Bohlen 1996, Jamieson 2000), which raises the concern that exotic earthworm introduction could be a mechanism for the introduction of pathogens into new areas. The potentially most serious case, given the recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Europe, is a report of L. terrestris carrying a virulent strain of that disease virus (reviewed by Edwards and Bohlen 1996). This observation was made in a lab culture study, where the virus remained virulent for 3 to 7 days after ingestion by the earthworm, suggesting that L. terrestris could serve as a reservoir and dispersing agent for the disease under field conditions. Moreover, some cases of human infections of lungs, kidneys, and mesenteries by nematodes apparently derived from earthworms (species not given) have been reported. Other animal parasites and pathogens reportedly carried by earthworms include protozoan and nematode parasites of wild and domestic birds and nematode and helminth parasites of pigs, small mammals, and birds (Lee 1985, Edwards and Bohlen 1996).

Earthworms also have been reported to carry and spread plant pathogens, including spores of Fusarium, Pythium, and potato wart disease, and cysts of plant parasitic nematodes (e.g., potato root eelworm). The most studied earthworm species have been European lumbricids (L. terrestris, A. longa), but one megascolecid (Megascolex insignis) also reportedly increased the spread of a fungal pathogen (Lee 1985, Edwards and Bohlen 1996). Conversely, there are reports that lum bricid earthworms reduce the density of pathogenic nematodes and the severity of symptoms of Rhizoctonia infections of wheat seedlings, as well as aid in the dispersal through soil of disease biocontrol agents or genetically modified bacteria used in bioremediation (Edwards and Bohlen 1996, Daane and Haggblom 1999); Daane and Haggblom (1999) also showed that bacteria might be transported inside earthworm cocoons. Although there are no reported links between exotic earthworms and the introduction of significant pathogens, the potential for pathogens to be carried by earthworms warrants development of policies to minimize such introduction.

Assessing risks of exotic earthworm invasions

Assessing the risk of earthworm invasions is challenging because there is no evidence of clear economic impacts and because the linkages between ecological processes below ground and above ground are poorly understood. Much of the research on invasions by terrestrial invertebrates has focused on insects, particularly those that have become economically important pests. Because of their relatively high mobility and fecundity, a number of insect invaders have shown rapid spread and have become the subject of intensive research and control efforts (Simberloff 1989). Invasion biology of soil invertebrates has not been as well studied (Ehrenfeld and Scott 2001), with the exception of some ant, termite, and nematode species of economic importance. Invasions by more cryptic and less mobile soil fauna appear to be qualitatively and quantitatively different from those of other invertebrates and may even be more similar to plant invasions than to those of other animals (Di Castri 1991). Invasions by terrestrial planarians (Boag and Yeates 2001) may be the best model for understanding and controlling earthworm invasions because of similarities between these groups with respect to ecology, life history, and modes of transport.

Identifying problematic earthworm species before importation.

It is difficult to predict which species in any taxonomic group of animals or plants will be successful invaders, or even to list characteristics common to those that have been successful (Simberloff 1989, Williamson 1996, Mack et al. 2000). In the case of earthworms, most of the morphological and behavioral traits listed in table 3 can be found in at least some invasive species. Nor does success of one species necessarily indicate success of related species. For example, Pontoscolex corethrurus and Aporrectodea trapezoides are highly successful invaders in tropical and temperate climates, respectively, whereas their congeners, Pontoscolex spiralis and Aporrectodea icterica, appear to be much less so, possibly because they have not been as widely introduced or they are not as well adapted to a wide range of environmental conditions.

Numerous indicators of successful invaders have been postulated (e.g., high intrinsic rate of increase, certain reproductive and genetic characteristics, high abundance and wide range in native habitat, taxonomic isolation or occupancy of vacant niche in new habitat), but many of these are difficult to determine or do not hold in practice. Nonetheless, some generalizations about invasive species, concerning propagule pressure, habitat matching, and previous success at invasion, may be useful in developing criteria for earthworm importation (Simberloff 1989, Ruesink et al. 1995, Williamson 1996, Mack et al. 2000).

Propagule pressure is a function of inoculum characteristics of an introduced species - the probability of establishment of a species in a new area increases with increasing size of the introduced population, with increasing frequency of introduction, or both. In addition to initial population size, a high reproductive output after introduction may increase the likelihood of dispersal into a new environment. Other ecological characteristics of earthworms may affect their establishment, including resting stages (e.g., estivation and diapause) and production of resistant cocoons, both of which allow populations to survive adverse conditions. Also, a number of earthworm species display parthenogenesis (obligate or facultative), a trait that may enhance the establishment of new populations (Lee 1985, Fragoso et al. 1999). Thus, high density or frequent introductions of parthenogenetic species with high fecundity may indicate a high probability of successful invasion if the target habitat is suitable.

Habitat matching refers to conditions in the habitat of origin relative to those of proposed or suspected areas of introduction. As a general rule, species that exhibit a wide range of environmental plasticity in their native habitats are likely to be more successful as invaders than species with more restrictive environmental requirements (Williamson 1996). Earthworm species from northern latitudes (e.g., European lumbricids and some Asian megascolecids) are poor colonizers in tropical or subtropical climates (except in localized temperate situations), and vice versa. For example, despite continued and widespread introduction throughout the United States, Eisenia fetida, the lumbricid "manure worm" commonly used in vermicomposting, is not often found in natural habitats in the southern United States. Likewise, Pontoscolex corethrurus (Glossoscolecidae) and Eudrilus eugeniae (Eudrilidae), both now distributed throughout the tropics, apparently have not become established in natural habitats in the continental United States where they have been introduced, with the exception of P. corethrurus in south Florida (Gates 1970, 1982, Fragoso et al. 1999).

Assessment of matching with specific subhabitats may be possible, based on information about behavioral or morphological characteristics of introduced species (table 3). Although these characteristics may not be good predictors of invasion success, they could be helpful in estimating the kinds of effects an exotic earthworm may have if it is released into new environments. For example, in Alberta, Canada, the exotic epigeic, Dendrobaena octaedra, mixed the surface litter and upper mineral layers of soil in a lodgepole pine forest (McLean and Parkinson 1997), whereas a combination of epigeic (D. octaedra), endogeic (Aporrectodea spp.), and anecic (L. terrestris) species transformed the forest floor to a depth of up to 50 centimeters in hardwood forests in Minnesota (Alban and Berry 1994, Hale et al. 2000).

Previous success at invasion may be one of the clearest indicators of a species' potential to invade new habitats, at least for the well-known anthropochorus earthworms. There are documented reports of earthworm invasions throughout the world, and a number of species are known to have achieved wide distributions beyond their places of origin in tropical and temperate regions, presumably because of their ability to invade and become established in a wide variety of habitats. Lee (1985) suggests that there are about 100 such "peregrine"species, representing all families and presumably transported by humans "across otherwise impassable barriers." Some of the widely distributed, potentially invasive earthworm species and some of their ecological characteristics are listed in table 4.

Working criteria for assessing potentially invasive earthworms.

Any one of these attributes - propagule pressure, habitat matching, or previous success at invasion - probably is not sufficient to evaluate the invasion potential of an earthworm species. Furthermore, these attributes are related primarily to mechanisms and ecological consequences of invasions and not to the possibility that earthworms may be vectors of pathogens. Both aspects of risk are combined in box 1 as working criteria for assessing invasion and disease-vector potential of exotic earthworms. These criteria represent a subset of protocols summarized by Ruesink and colleagues (1995).

This set of information for any earthworm species should help decisionmakers identify which species may present high invasive potential if introduced into new areas, but it is unlikely that all of the necessary information will be available for all introduced species. In the case of intentional introductions, prospective importers might be made to bear the responsibility of providing as much information as possible (Ruesink et al. 1995), which then could be confirmed and augmented by import authorities. For inadvertent introductions, authorities or others concerned with earthworm invasions would need to acquire the information, a considerable amount of which is in the literature but scattered in text and reference books, scientific journals, popular or gray literature, and Internet Web sites. Creation of a data bank with information on reproductive potential, habitat conditions, previous invasion success, disease vectors, and so on would be useful. Table 4 contains a limited set of such information for some of the known invasive species. Such a data bank should also reference oligochaete specialists worldwide.

Policy options

Exotic earthworms have been introduced into most regions of the world principally through human commerce over the past few centuries. Many species were probably introduced and established before there was any consideration of potential impacts, possibly without even knowledge that importation was taking place. As a result, historically, importations of earthworms were not regulated; only recently, as the impacts of importations have become apparent, have regulations been implemented.
Risk assessment protocols have been developed for other invasive organisms (e.g., Ruesink et al. 1995, Reichard and Hamilton 1997). In terms of risks associated with earthworm invasions, three categories warrant attention: (1) the potential impacts on soil processes and environmental quality (e.g., an increase in the turnover of carbon in soil), (2) the potential impacts on beneficial or desirable microbial, animal, and plant species (e.g., native earthworm populations and rare or threatened plants), and (3) the potential for earthworms to be vectors for the import or dispersal of pathogens (e.g., animal or plant diseases). Overall risk may be defined as the product of the probability of establishment and magnitude of potential effects (Ruesink et al. 1995), both of which might be estimated from the criteria in box 1 and an analysis of a species' likely impacts within these categories of risk. Regulatory response to importation requests or to inadvertent importation would then depend on the level of risk perceived. There are several possible degrees of regulation.  
formula

No action.

As noted previously, current regulations applicable to earthworm importation into the United States are based on the Federal Plant Pest Act, under which APHIS controls imports containing soil that might carry pathogens. In the absence of pathogens, it appears that any earthworm species may be imported, that is, there is no specific consideration of earthworms as invasive organisms. This is essentially an "innocent until proven guilty" approach, which has been criticized as ineffective against introductions of potentially invasive species whose risks have not yet been assessed (Ruesink et al. 1995, Mack et al. 2000). With no change in this policy, it seems likely that invasions by new as well as already established species will occur, considering Gates's (1970, 1982) observation that exotic earthworms are being introduced continually into the United States from many areas of the world. New introductions could also increase the risk of introduction of pathogens carried by earthworms imported from affected regions.

Selective importation of earthworms.

A policy allowing importation only of approved earthworm species would require the development of an approval process, possibly similar to that recommended for control of terrestrial flatworm invasions in Europe, Australia, and New Zealand (Alford et al. 1998). In Canada, earthworms can be imported only from the Netherlands (only L. terrestris) and the United States (only species that are known to already occur in Canada) (see www.cfia-acia.agr.ca/english/plaveg/protect/dir/d-00-04e.shtml). Such a "clean list" or "guilty until proven innocent" approach (Reichard and Hamilton 1997, Mack et al. 2000) could be applied on a case-by-case basis, with certification by authorities to ensure that only desired species are imported. It would be helpful under this scenario to have listings of both acceptable and unacceptable species of earthworms. This policy would most likely reduce ecological risks of invasion by species known to be successful invaders, but without research on other species, it could not guarantee that those approved for importation do not themselves become invaders. Also, this policy may not reduce the risks of pathogen introduction, which could occur through approved earthworms.

Severe restrictions on imported earthworms.

A policy allowing importation only of approved earthworms and appropriately treated earthworm materials would require an approval system, as well as measures such as quarantine of all materials before entry, importation in pathogen-free packaging (as is required in Canada), and perhaps pest monitoring and control during production in the exporting country. Further measures might include admission only of surface-sterilized cocoons and of adults with no soil in their digestive tracts. This policy would be similar to those already in use for restricted importation and release of biocontrol agents and genetically modified organisms (Ruesink et al. 1995). Such a policy would probably significantly reduce the risks of accidental disease importation via earthworms (although microorganisms may be transported inside cocoons; Daane and Haggblom 1999) and the risks of exotic earthworm invasions.

Complete ban on imported earthworms.

This policy would be expected to greatly reduce the risks of introduction of earthworm-borne diseases and of new invasions by exotic species. Earthworm users would have to rely on species populations already present in North America. Because so many exotic species are already established, this action may not be an excessive burden on those desiring earthworms for vermicomposting, fish bait, and so on; it might even stimulate development of native earthworm-based culturing and distribution enterprises and greater exploration of possible uses of native earthworm species. However, a complete importation ban might also impede scientific research on earthworms or oligochaetes in general and discourage development of innovative technologies utilizing earthworms (e.g., waste processing). Therefore, this policy option might include special exceptions for importing earthworms for research or technology development. Undoubtedly, a complete ban would be difficult to enforce, particularly with regard to inadvertent introductions of earthworms or cocoons in horticultural or agricultural materials.

Conclusions

A range of policy options for controlling earthworm importation is desirable. A combination of aspects of selective importation and severe restriction might provide a reasonable level of risk reduction, while allowing continued commerce in and development of earthworm-related enterprises. Of course, a complete ban may be necessary on an ad hoc basis to prohibit importation of earthworms from countries afflicted with pathogens known or suspected to be carried by earthworms (e.g., foot-and-mouth disease).

Enough information probably is available for screening those exotic species with the highest invasion potential. However, as with many other groups of invasive organisms (Simberloff 1989, Mack et al. 2000), more basic knowledge is needed of the natural history and ecology of invasive earthworms in their native habitats and in ecosystems where they have invaded and had significant impacts. What factors control their populations under native conditions? Which characteristics of the organisms and of the habitats have contributed to successful invasions and to invasion failures? How important is biotic resistance, which may occur in ecosystems inhabited by native earthworms? Are native species competitive with aggressive exotic species under native conditions? Is habitat disturbance a prerequisite to invasion? Case studies and experimental manipulations are needed to answer these and other pertinent questions. Additionally, there is still a need for basic survey and taxonomic work to assess the diversity and distribution of native earthworm species, some populations of which may be vulnerable to exotic invasions (James 1995).

Prevention of local invasions and restoration of invaded sites have received little attention. As noted above, activities of earthworms are often considered beneficial in agricultural soils, and there probably would be little incentive to eradicate exotic species or replace them with native species in those situations. The focus should be on preventing new invasions from such areas into surrounding ecosystems where exotic species are expected to have adverse impacts. Extirpation of exotic earthworms from soil is not likely to be feasible on a large scale, but possible barriers to further expansion, such as buffer zones of unsuitable habitat which might impede migration, should be studied.

In addition to controls on importation at national borders, regulations at state and provincial or regional levels may be needed to prevent transport of exotic earthworms into remote or sensitive areas. Efforts by conservation and outreach groups (e.g., Minnesota Worm Watch; see www.nrri.umn.edu/worms) are helpful in raising public awareness of problems associated with earthworm invasions in such areas.