The Project Gutenberg EBook of 1914 and Other Poems, by Rupert Brooke

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: 1914 and Other Poems

Author: Rupert Brooke

Release Date: October 29, 2010 [EBook #33902]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 1914 AND OTHER POEMS ***




Produced by D Alexander and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)









 1914
 AND OTHER POEMS
 BY RUPERT BROOKE

 LONDON

 SIDGWICK & JACKSON LIMITED

 3 ADAM STREET ADELPHI W.C.
 1915




 _Copyright 1915 by Sidgwick & Jackson Ltd.
 All rights reserved_

 PRINTED AT THE COMPLETE PRESS
 WEST NORWOOD
 LONDON




[Illustration: Rupert Brooke 1913]




 _By the same Author_
 POEMS
 (_Sidgwick & Jackson Ltd._)
    _First edition, 1911
    Reprinted 1913
     May 1915 (twice)_




RUPERT BROOKE

 Born at Rugby, August 3, 1887
 Fellow of King's, 1913
 Sub-Lieutenant, R.N.V.R., September 1914
 Antwerp Expedition, October 1914
 Sailed with British Mediterranean
   Expeditionary Force, February 28, 1915
 Died in the Ægean, April 23, 1915




These poems have appeared in _New Numbers_, the old _Poetry Review_,
_Poetry and Drama_, _Rhythm_, _The Blue Review_, _The New Statesman_,
_The Pall Mall Magazine_, and _Basileon_. Acknowledgements are due to
the Editors who have allowed them to be reprinted.

The Author had thought of publishing a volume of poems this spring,
but he did not prepare the present book for publication.

 _May 1915_                                      E. M.




CONTENTS


 1914

                                                PAGE

   I. PEACE                                      11
  II. SAFETY                                     12
 III. THE DEAD                                   13
  IV. THE DEAD                                   14
   V. THE SOLDIER                                15
 THE TREASURE                                    16


 THE SOUTH SEAS

 TIARE TAHITI                                    19
 RETROSPECT                                      22
 THE GREAT LOVER                                 24
 HEAVEN                                          27
 DOUBTS                                          29
 THERE'S WISDOM IN WOMEN                         30
 HE WONDERS WHETHER TO PRAISE OR TO BLAME HER    31
 A MEMORY                                        32
 ONE DAY                                         33
 WAIKIKI                                         34
 HAUNTINGS                                       35
 SONNET (_Suggested by some of the Proceedings
   of the Society for Psychical Research_)       36
 CLOUDS                                          37
 MUTABILITY                                      38


 OTHER POEMS

 THE BUSY HEART                                  41
 LOVE                                            42
 UNFORTUNATE                                     43
 THE CHILTERNS                                   44
 HOME                                            46
 THE NIGHT JOURNEY                               47
 SONG                                            49
 BEAUTY AND BEAUTY                               50
 THE WAY THAT LOVERS USE                         51
 MARY AND GABRIEL                                52
 THE FUNERAL OF YOUTH                            55


 GRANTCHESTER

 THE OLD VICARAGE, GRANTCHESTER                  59




1914




I. PEACE


 Now, God be thanked Who has matched us with His hour,
   And caught our youth, and wakened us from sleeping,
 With hand made sure, clear eye, and sharpened power,
   To turn, as swimmers into cleanness leaping,
 Glad from a world grown old and cold and weary,
   Leave the sick hearts that honour could not move,
 And half-men, and their dirty songs and dreary,
   And all the little emptiness of love!

 Oh! we, who have known shame, we have found release there,
   Where there's no ill, no grief, but sleep has mending,
     Naught broken save this body, lost but breath;
 Nothing to shake the laughing heart's long peace there
   But only agony, and that has ending;
     And the worst friend and enemy is but Death.




II. SAFETY


 Dear! of all happy in the hour, most blest
   He who has found our hid security,
 Assured in the dark tides of the world that rest,
   And heard our word, 'Who is so safe as we?'
 We have found safety with all things undying,
   The winds, and morning, tears of men and mirth,
 The deep night, and birds singing, and clouds flying,
   And sleep, and freedom, and the autumnal earth.
 We have built a house that is not for Time's throwing.
   We have gained a peace unshaken by pain for ever.
 War knows no power. Safe shall be my going,
   Secretly armed against all death's endeavour;
 Safe though all safety's lost; safe where men fall;
 And if these poor limbs die, safest of all.




III. THE DEAD


 Blow out, you bugles, over the rich Dead!
   There's none of these so lonely and poor of old,
   But, dying, has made us rarer gifts than gold.
 These laid the world away; poured out the red
 Sweet wine of youth; gave up the years to be
   Of work and joy, and that unhoped serene,
   That men call age; and those who would have been,
 Their sons, they gave, their immortality.

 Blow, bugles, blow! They brought us, for our dearth,
   Holiness, lacked so long, and Love, and Pain.
 Honour has come back, as a king, to earth,
   And paid his subjects with a royal wage;
 And Nobleness walks in our ways again;
   And we have come into our heritage.




IV. THE DEAD


 These hearts were woven of human joys and cares,
   Washed marvellously with sorrow, swift to mirth.
 The years had given them kindness. Dawn was theirs,
   And sunset, and the colours of the earth.
 These had seen movement, and heard music; known
   Slumber and waking; loved; gone proudly friended;
 Felt the quick stir of wonder; sat alone;
   Touched flowers and furs and cheeks. All this is ended.

 There are waters blown by changing winds to laughter
 And lit by the rich skies, all day. And after,
   Frost, with a gesture, stays the waves that dance
 And wandering loveliness. He leaves a white
   Unbroken glory, a gathered radiance,
 A width, a shining peace, under the night.




V. THE SOLDIER


 If I should die, think only this of me:
   That there's some corner of a foreign field
 That is for ever England. There shall be
   In that rich earth a richer dust concealed;
 A dust whom England bore, shaped, made aware,
   Gave, once, her flowers to love, her ways to roam,
 A body of England's, breathing English air,
   Washed by the rivers, blest by suns of home.

 And think, this heart, all evil shed away,
   A pulse in the eternal mind, no less
     Gives somewhere back the thoughts by England given;
 Her sights and sounds; dreams happy as her day;
   And laughter, learnt of friends; and gentleness,
     In hearts at peace, under an English heaven.




THE TREASURE


 When colour goes home into the eyes,
   And lights that shine are shut again
 With dancing girls and sweet birds' cries
   Behind the gateways of the brain;
 And that no-place which gave them birth, shall close
 The rainbow and the rose:--

 Still may Time hold some golden space
   Where I'll unpack that scented store
 Of song and flower and sky and face,
   And count, and touch, and turn them o'er,
 Musing upon them; as a mother, who
 Has watched her children all the rich day through
 Sits, quiet-handed, in the fading light,
 When children sleep, ere night.




THE SOUTH SEAS




TIARE TAHITI


 Mamua, when our laughter ends,
 And hearts and bodies, brown as white,
 Are dust about the doors of friends,
 Or scent ablowing down the night,
 Then, oh! then, the wise agree,
 Comes our immortality.
 Mamua, there waits a land
 Hard for us to understand.
 Out of time, beyond the sun,
 All are one in Paradise,
 You and Pupure are one,
 And Taü, and the ungainly wise.
 There the Eternals are, and there
 The Good, the Lovely, and the True,
 And Types, whose earthly copies were
 The foolish broken things we knew;
 There is the Face, whose ghosts we are;
 The real, the never-setting Star;
 And the Flower, of which we love
 Faint and fading shadows here;
 Never a tear, but only Grief;
 Dance, but not the limbs that move;
 Songs in Song shall disappear;
 Instead of lovers, Love shall be;
 For hearts, Immutability;
 And there, on the Ideal Reef,
 Thunders the Everlasting Sea!

   And my laughter, and my pain,
 Shall home to the Eternal Brain.
 And all lovely things, they say,
 Meet in Loveliness again;
 Miri's laugh, Teïpo's feet,
 And the hands of Matua,
 Stars and sunlight there shall meet,
 Coral's hues and rainbows there,
 And Teüra's braided hair;
 And with the starred _tiare's_ white,
 And white birds in the dark ravine,
 And _flamboyants_ ablaze at night,
 And jewels, and evening's after-green,
 And dawns of pearl and gold and red,
 Mamua, your lovelier head!
 And there'll no more be one who dreams
 Under the ferns, of crumbling stuff,
 Eyes of illusion, mouth that seems,
 All time-entangled human love.
 And you'll no longer swing and sway
 Divinely down the scented shade,
 Where feet to Ambulation fade,
 And moons are lost in endless Day.
 How shall we wind these wreaths of ours,
 Where there are neither heads nor flowers?
 Oh, Heaven's Heaven!--but we'll be missing
 The palms, and sunlight, and the south;
 And there's an end, I think, of kissing,
 When our mouths are one with Mouth....

   _Taü here_, Mamua,
 Crown the hair, and come away!
 Hear the calling of the moon,
 And the whispering scents that stray
 About the idle warm lagoon.
 Hasten, hand in human hand,
 Down the dark, the flowered way,
 Along the whiteness of the sand,
 And in the water's soft caress,
 Wash the mind of foolishness,
 Mamua, until the day.
 Spend the glittering moonlight there
 Pursuing down the soundless deep
 Limbs that gleam and shadowy hair,
 Or floating lazy, half-asleep.
 Dive and double and follow after,
 Snare in flowers, and kiss, and call,
 With lips that fade, and human laughter
 And faces individual,
 Well this side of Paradise!...
 There's little comfort in the wise.

 PAPEETE, _February_ 1914




RETROSPECT


 In your arms was still delight,
 Quiet as a street at night;
 And thoughts of you, I do remember,
 Were green leaves in a darkened chamber,
 Were dark clouds in a moonless sky.
 Love, in you, went passing by,
 Penetrative, remote, and rare,
 Like a bird in the wide air,
 And, as the bird, it left no trace
 In the heaven of your face.
 In your stupidity I found
 The sweet hush after a sweet sound.
 All about you was the light
 That dims the greying end of night;
 Desire was the unrisen sun,
 Joy the day not yet begun,
 With tree whispering to tree,
 Without wind, quietly.
 Wisdom slept within your hair,
 And Long-Suffering was there,
 And, in the flowing of your dress,
 Undiscerning Tenderness.
 And when you thought, it seemed to me,
 Infinitely, and like a sea,
 About the slight world you had known
 Your vast unconsciousness was thrown....

   O haven without wave or tide!
 Silence, in which all songs have died!
 Holy book, where hearts are still!
 And home at length under the hill!
 O mother quiet, breasts of peace,
 Where love itself would faint and cease!
 O infinite deep I never knew,
 I would come back, come back to you,
 Find you, as a pool unstirred,
 Kneel down by you, and never a word,
 Lay my head, and nothing said,
 In your hands, ungarlanded;
 And a long watch you would keep;
 And I should sleep, and I should sleep!

 MATAIEA, _January_ 1914




THE GREAT LOVER


 I have been so great a lover: filled my days
 So proudly with the splendour of Love's praise,
 The pain, the calm, and the astonishment,
 Desire illimitable, and still content,
 And all dear names men use, to cheat despair,
 For the perplexed and viewless streams that bear
 Our hearts at random down the dark of life.
 Now, ere the unthinking silence on that strife
 Steals down, I would cheat drowsy Death so far,
 My night shall be remembered for a star
 That outshone all the suns of all men's days.
 Shall I not crown them with immortal praise
 Whom I have loved, who have given me, dared with me
 High secrets, and in darkness knelt to see
 The inenarrable godhead of delight?
 Love is a flame;--we have beaconed the world's night.
 A city:--and we have built it, these and I.
 An emperor:--we have taught the world to die.
 So, for their sakes I loved, ere I go hence,
 And the high cause of Love's magnificence,
 And to keep loyalties young, I'll write those names
 Golden for ever, eagles, crying flames,
 And set them as a banner, that men may know,
 To dare the generations, burn, and blow
 Out on the wind of Time, shining and streaming....
 These I have loved:
                  White plates and cups, clean-gleaming,
 Ringed with blue lines; and feathery, faery dust;
 Wet roofs, beneath the lamp-light; the strong crust
 Of friendly bread; and many-tasting food;
 Rainbows; and the blue bitter smoke of wood;
 And radiant raindrops couching in cool flowers;
 And flowers themselves, that sway through sunny hours,
 Dreaming of moths that drink them under the moon;
 Then, the cool kindliness of sheets, that soon
 Smooth away trouble; and the rough male kiss
 Of blankets; grainy wood; live hair that is
 Shining and free; blue-massing clouds; the keen
 Unpassioned beauty of a great machine;
 The benison of hot water; furs to touch;
 The good smell of old clothes; and other such--
 The comfortable smell of friendly fingers,
 Hair's fragrance, and the musty reek that lingers
 About dead leaves and last year's ferns....
                                           Dear names,
 And thousand other throng to me! Royal flames;
 Sweet water's dimpling laugh from tap or spring;
 Holes in the ground; and voices that do sing;
 Voices in laughter, too; and body's pain,
 Soon turned to peace; and the deep-panting train;
 Firm sands; the little dulling edge of foam
 That browns and dwindles as the wave goes home;
 And washen stones, gay for an hour; the cold
 Graveness of iron; moist black earthen mould;
 Sleep; and high places; footprints in the dew;
 And oaks; and brown horse-chestnuts, glossy-new;
 And new-peeled sticks; and shining pools on grass;--
 All these have been my loves. And these shall pass,
 Whatever passes not, in the great hour,
 Nor all my passion, all my prayers, have power
 To hold them with me through the gate of Death.
 They'll play deserter, turn with the traitor breath,
 Break the high bond we made, and sell Love's trust
 And sacramented covenant to the dust.
 --Oh, never a doubt but, somewhere, I shall wake,
 And give what's left of love again, and make
 New friends, now strangers....
                                 But the best I've known,
 Stays here, and changes, breaks, grows old, is blown
 About the winds of the world, and fades from brains
 Of living men, and dies.
                          Nothing remains.

 O dear my loves, O faithless, once again
 This one last gift I give: that after men
 Shall know, and later lovers, far-removed,
 Praise you, "All these were lovely"; say, "He loved."

 MATAIEA, 1914




HEAVEN


 Fish (fly-replete, in depth of June,
 Dawdling away their wat'ry noon)
 Ponder deep wisdom, dark or clear,
 Each secret fishy hope or fear.
 Fish say, they have their Stream and Pond;
 But is there anything Beyond?
 This life cannot be All, they swear,
 For how unpleasant, if it were!
 One may not doubt that, somehow, Good
 Shall come of Water and of Mud;
 And, sure, the reverent eye must see
 A Purpose in Liquidity.
 We darkly know, by Faith we cry,
 The future is not Wholly Dry.
 Mud unto mud!--Death eddies near--
 Not here the appointed End, not here!
 But somewhere, beyond Space and Time,
 Is wetter water, slimier slime!
 And there (they trust) there swimmeth One
 Who swam ere rivers were begun,
 Immense, of fishy form and mind,
 Squamous, omnipotent, and kind;
 And under that Almighty Fin,
 The littlest fish may enter in.
 Oh! never fly conceals a hook,
 Fish say, in the Eternal Brook,
 But more than mundane weeds are there,
 And mud, celestially fair;
 Fat caterpillars drift around,
 And Paradisal grubs are found;
 Unfading moths, immortal flies,
 And the worm that never dies.
 And in that Heaven of all their wish,
 There shall be no more land, say fish.




DOUBTS


 When she sleeps, her soul, I know,
 Goes a wanderer on the air,
 Wings where I may never go,
 Leaves her lying, still and fair,
 Waiting, empty, laid aside,
 Like a dress upon a chair....
 This I know, and yet I know
 Doubts that will not be denied.

 For if the soul be not in place,
 What has laid trouble in her face?
 And, sits there nothing ware and wise
 Behind the curtains of her eyes,
 What is it, in the self's eclipse,
 Shadows, soft and passingly,
 About the corners of her lips,
 The smile that is essential she?

 And if the spirit be not there,
 Why is fragrance in the hair?




THERE'S WISDOM IN WOMEN


 "Oh love is fair, and love is rare;" my dear one she said,
 "But love goes lightly over." I bowed her foolish head,
 And kissed her hair and laughed at her. Such a child was she;
 So new to love, so true to love, and she spoke so bitterly.

 But there's wisdom in women, of more than they have known,
 And thoughts go blowing through them, are wiser than their own,
 Or how should my dear one, being ignorant and young,
 Have cried on love so bitterly, with so true a tongue?




 HE WONDERS WHETHER TO PRAISE
 OR TO BLAME HER


 I have peace to weigh your worth, now all is over,
   But if to praise or blame you, cannot say.
 For, who decries the loved, decries the lover;
   Yet what man lauds the thing he's thrown away?

 Be you, in truth, this dull, slight, cloudy naught,
   The more fool I, so great a fool to adore;
 But if you're that high goddess once I thought,
   The more your godhead is, I lose the more.

 Dear fool, pity the fool who thought you clever!
   Dear wisdom, do not mock the fool that missed you!
 Most fair,--the blind has lost your face for ever!
   Most foul,--how could I see you while I kissed you?

 So ... the poor love of fools and blind I've proved you,
 For, foul or lovely, 'twas a fool that loved you.




A MEMORY (_From a sonnet-sequence_)


 Somewhile before the dawn I rose, and stept
   Softly along the dim way to your room,
   And found you sleeping in the quiet gloom,
 And holiness about you as you slept.
 I knelt there; till your waking fingers crept
   About my head, and held it. I had rest
   Unhoped this side of Heaven, beneath your breast.
 I knelt a long time, still; nor even wept.

 It was great wrong you did me; and for gain
 Of that poor moment's kindliness, and ease,
 And sleepy mother-comfort!
                            Child, you know
 How easily love leaps out to dreams like these,
 Who has seen them true. And love that's wakened so
 Takes all too long to lay asleep again.

 WAIKIKI, _October_ 1913




ONE DAY


 Today I have been happy. All the day
   I held the memory of you, and wove
 Its laughter with the dancing light o' the spray,
   And sowed the sky with tiny clouds of love,
 And sent you following the white waves of sea,
   And crowned your head with fancies, nothing worth,
 Stray buds from that old dust of misery,
   Being glad with a new foolish quiet mirth.

 So lightly I played with those dark memories,
 Just as a child, beneath the summer skies,
   Plays hour by hour with a strange shining stone,
 For which (he knows not) towns were fire of old,
   And love has been betrayed, and murder done,
 And great kings turned to a little bitter mould.

 THE PACIFIC, _October_ 1913




WAIKIKI


 Warm perfumes like a breath from vine and tree
   Drift down the darkness. Plangent, hidden from eyes,
   Somewhere an _eukaleli_ thrills and cries
 And stabs with pain the night's brown savagery.
 And dark scents whisper; and dim waves creep to me,
   Gleam like a woman's hair, stretch out, and rise;
   And new stars burn into the ancient skies,
 Over the murmurous soft Hawaian sea.

 And I recall, lose, grasp, forget again,
   And still remember, a tale I have heard, or known
 An empty tale, of idleness and pain,
   Of two that loved--or did not love--and one
 Whose perplexed heart did evil, foolishly,
 A long while since, and by some other sea.

 WAIKIKI, 1913




HAUNTINGS


 In the grey tumult of these after years
   Oft silence falls; the incessant wranglers part;
 And less-than-echoes of remembered tears
   Hush all the loud confusion of the heart;
 And a shade, through the toss'd ranks of mirth and crying
   Hungers, and pains, and each dull passionate mood,--
 Quite lost, and all but all forgot, undying,
   Comes back the ecstasy of your quietude.

 So a poor ghost, beside his misty streams,
 Is haunted by strange doubts, evasive dreams,
   Hints of a pre-Lethean life, of men,
 Stars, rocks, and flesh, things unintelligible,
   And light on waving grass, he knows not when,
 And feet that ran, but where, he cannot tell.

 THE PACIFIC, 1914




SONNET (_Suggested by some of the Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research_)


 Not with vain tears, when we're beyond the sun,
   We'll beat on the substantial doors, nor tread
   Those dusty high-roads of the aimless dead
 Plaintive for Earth; but rather turn and run
 Down some close-covered by-way of the air,
   Some low sweet alley between wind and wind,
   Stoop under faint gleams, thread the shadows, find
 Some whispering ghost-forgotten nook, and there

 Spend in pure converse our eternal day;
   Think each in each, immediately wise;
 Learn all we lacked before; hear, know, and say
   What this tumultuous body now denies;
 And feel, who have laid our groping hands away;
   And see, no longer blinded by our eyes.




CLOUDS


 Down the blue night the unending columns press
   In noiseless tumult, break and wave and flow,
   Now tread the far South, or lift rounds of snow
 Up to the white moon's hidden loveliness.
 Some pause in their grave wandering comradeless,
   And turn with profound gesture vague and slow,
   As who would pray good for the world, but know
 Their benediction empty as they bless.

 They say that the Dead die not, but remain
   Near to the rich heirs of their grief and mirth.
     I think they ride the calm mid-heaven, as these,
 In wise majestic melancholy train,
     And watch the moon, and the still-raging seas,
   And men, coming and going on the earth.

 THE PACIFIC, _October_ 1913




MUTABILITY


 They say there's a high windless world and strange,
   Out of the wash of days and temporal tide,
   Where Faith and Good, Wisdom and Truth abide,
 _Æterna corpora_, subject to no change.
 There the sure suns of these pale shadows move;
   There stand the immortal ensigns of our war;
   Our melting flesh fixed Beauty there, a star,
 And perishing hearts, imperishable Love....

 Dear, we know only that we sigh, kiss, smile;
   Each kiss lasts but the kissing; and grief goes over;
   Love has no habitation but the heart.
 Poor straws! on the dark flood we catch awhile,
   Cling, and are borne into the night apart.
   The laugh dies with the lips, 'Love' with the lover.

 SOUTH KENSINGTON--MAKAWELI, 1913




OTHER POEMS




THE BUSY HEART


 Now that we've done our best and worst, and parted,
   I would fill my mind with thoughts that will not rend.
 (O heart, I do not dare go empty-hearted)
   I'll think of Love in books, Love without end;
 Women with child, content; and old men sleeping;
   And wet strong ploughlands, scarred for certain grain;
 And babes that weep, and so forget their weeping;
   And the young heavens, forgetful after rain;
 And evening hush, broken by homing wings;
   And Song's nobility, and Wisdom holy,
 That live, we dead. I would think of a thousand things,
   Lovely and durable, and taste them slowly,
 One after one, like tasting a sweet food.
 I have need to busy my heart with quietude.




LOVE


 Love is a breach in the walls, a broken gate,
   Where that comes in that shall not go again;
 Love sells the proud heart's citadel to Fate.
   They have known shame, who love unloved. Even then,
 When two mouths, thirsty each for each, find slaking,
   And agony's forgot, and hushed the crying
 Of credulous hearts, in heaven--such are but taking
   Their own poor dreams within their arms, and lying
 Each in his lonely night, each with a ghost.
   Some share that night. But they know, love grows colder,
 Grows false and dull, that was sweet lies at most.
   Astonishment is no more in hand or shoulder,
 But darkens, and dies out from kiss to kiss.
 All this is love; and all love is but this.




UNFORTUNATE


 Heart, you are restless as a paper scrap
   That's tossed down dusty pavements by the wind;
   Saying, "She is most wise, patient and kind.
 Between the small hands folded in her lap
 Surely a shamed head may bow down at length,
   And find forgiveness where the shadows stir
 About her lips, and wisdom in her strength,
   Peace in her peace. Come to her, come to her!"...

 She will not care. She'll smile to see me come,
   So that I think all Heaven in flower to fold me.
   She'll give me all I ask, kiss me and hold me,
     And open wide upon that holy air
 The gates of peace, and take my tiredness home,
     Kinder than God. But, heart, she will not care.




THE CHILTERNS


 Your hands, my dear, adorable,
   Your lips of tenderness
 --Oh, I've loved you faithfully and well,
   Three years, or a bit less.
   It wasn't a success.

 Thank God, that's done! and I'll take the road,
   Quit of my youth and you,
 The Roman road to Wendover
   By Tring and Lilley Hoo,
   As a free man may do.

 For youth goes over, the joys that fly,
   The tears that follow fast;
 And the dirtiest things we do must lie
   Forgotten at the last;
   Even Love goes past.

 What's left behind I shall not find,
   The splendour and the pain;
 The splash of sun, the shouting wind,
   And the brave sting of rain,
   I may not meet again.

 But the years, that take the best away,
   Give something in the end;
 And a better friend than love have they,
   For none to mar or mend,
   That have themselves to friend.

 I shall desire and I shall find
   The best of my desires;
 The autumn road, the mellow wind
   That soothes the darkening shires.
   And laughter, and inn-fires.

 White mist about the black hedgerows,
   The slumbering Midland plain,
 The silence where the clover grows,
   And the dead leaves in the lane,
   Certainly, these remain.

 And I shall find some girl perhaps,
   And a better one than you,
 With eyes as wise, but kindlier,
   And lips as soft, but true.
   And I daresay she will do.




HOME


 I came back late and tired last night
   Into my little room,
 To the long chair and the firelight
   And comfortable gloom.

 But as I entered softly in
   I saw a woman there,
 The line of neck and cheek and chin,
   The darkness of her hair,
 The form of one I did not know
   Sitting in my chair.

 I stood a moment fierce and still,
   Watching her neck and hair.
 I made a step to her; and saw
   That there was no one there.

 It was some trick of the firelight
   That made me see her there.
 It was a chance of shade and light
   And the cushion in the chair.

 Oh, all you happy over the earth,
   That night, how could I sleep?
 I lay and watched the lonely gloom;
   And watched the moonlight creep
 From wall to basin, round the room.
   All night I could not sleep.




THE NIGHT JOURNEY


 Hands and lit faces eddy to a line;
   The dazed last minutes click; the clamour dies.
 Beyond the great-swung arc o' the roof, divine,
   Night, smoky-scarv'd, with thousand coloured eyes

 Glares the imperious mystery of the way.
   Thirsty for dark, you feel the long-limbed train
 Throb, stretch, thrill motion, slide, pull out and sway,
   Strain for the far, pause, draw to strength again....

 As a man, caught by some great hour, will rise,
   Slow-limbed, to meet the light or find his love;
 And, breathing long, with staring sightless eyes,
   Hands out, head back, agape and silent, move

 Sure as a flood, smooth as a vast wind blowing;
   And, gathering power and purpose as he goes,
 Unstumbling, unreluctant, strong, unknowing,
   Borne by a will not his, that lifts, that grows,

 Sweep out to darkness, triumphing in his goal,
   Out of the fire, out of the little room....
 --There is an end appointed, O my soul!
   Crimson and green the signals burn; the gloom

 Is hung with steam's far-blowing livid streamers.
   Lost into God, as lights in light, we fly,
 Grown one with will, end-drunken huddled dreamers.
   The white lights roar. The sounds of the world die.

 And lips and laughter are forgotten things.
   Speed sharpens; grows. Into the night, and on,
 The strength and splendour of our purpose swings.
   The lamps fade; and the stars. We are alone.




SONG


 All suddenly the wind comes soft,
   And Spring is here again;
 And the hawthorn quickens with buds of green,
   And my heart with buds of pain.

 My heart all Winter lay so numb,
   The earth so dead and frore,
 That I never thought the Spring would come,
   Or my heart wake any more.

 But Winter's broken and earth has woken,
   And the small birds cry again;
 And the hawthorn hedge puts forth its buds,
   And my heart puts forth its pain.




BEAUTY AND BEAUTY


 When Beauty and Beauty meet
   All naked, fair to fair,
 The earth is crying-sweet,
   And scattering-bright the air,
 Eddying, dizzying, closing round,
   With soft and drunken laughter;
 Veiling all that may befall
   After--after--

 Where Beauty and Beauty met,
   Earth's still a-tremble there,
 And winds are scented yet,
   And memory-soft the air,
 Bosoming, folding glints of light,
   And shreds of shadowy laughter;
 Not the tears that fill the years
   After--after--




THE WAY THAT LOVERS USE


 The way that lovers use is this;
   They bow, catch hands, with never a word,
 And their lips meet, and they do kiss,
   --So I have heard.

 They queerly find some healing so,
   And strange attainment in the touch;
 There is a secret lovers know,
   --I have read as much.

 And theirs no longer joy nor smart,
   Changing or ending, night or day;
 But mouth to mouth, and heart on heart,
   --So lovers say.




MARY AND GABRIEL


 Young Mary, loitering once her garden way,
 Felt a warm splendour grow in the April day,
 As wine that blushes water through. And soon,
 Out of the gold air of the afternoon,
 One knelt before her: hair he had, or fire,
 Bound back above his ears with golden wire,
 Baring the eager marble of his face.
 Not man's nor woman's was the immortal grace
 Rounding the limbs beneath that robe of white,
 And lighting the proud eyes with changeless light,
 Incurious. Calm as his wings, and fair,
 That presence filled the garden.
                                  She stood there,
 Saying, "What would you, Sir?"
                                He told his word,
 "Blessed art thou of women!" Half she heard,
 Hands folded and face bowed, half long had known,
 The message of that clear and holy tone,
 That fluttered hot sweet sobs about her heart;
 Such serene tidings moved such human smart.
 Her breath came quick as little flakes of snow.
 Her hands crept up her breast. She did but know
 It was not hers. She felt a trembling stir
 Within her body, a will too strong for her
 That held and filled and mastered all. With eyes
 Closed, and a thousand soft short broken sighs,
 She gave submission; fearful, meek, and glad....
   She wished to speak. Under her breasts she had
 Such multitudinous burnings, to and fro,
 And throbs not understood; she did not know
 If they were hurt or joy for her; but only
 That she was grown strange to herself, half lonely,
 All wonderful, filled full of pains to come
 And thoughts she dare not think, swift thoughts and dumb,
 Human, and quaint, her own, yet very far,
 Divine, dear, terrible, familiar...
 Her heart was faint for telling; to relate
 Her limbs' sweet treachery, her strange high estate,
 Over and over, whispering, half revealing,
 Weeping; and so find kindness to her healing.
 'Twixt tears and laughter, panic hurrying her,
 She raised her eyes to that fair messenger.
 He knelt unmoved, immortal; with his eyes
 Gazing beyond her, calm to the calm skies;
 Radiant, untroubled in his wisdom, kind.
 His sheaf of lilies stirred not in the wind.
 How should she, pitiful with mortality,
 Try the wide peace of that felicity
 With ripples of her perplexed shaken heart,
 And hints of human ecstasy, human smart,
 And whispers of the lonely weight she bore,
 And how her womb within was hers no more
 And at length hers?
                     Being tired, she bowed her head;
 And said, "So be it!"
                       The great wings were spread
 Showering glory on the fields, and fire.
 The whole air, singing, bore him up, and higher,
 Unswerving, unreluctant. Soon he shone
 A gold speck in the gold skies; then was gone.

 The air was colder, and grey. She stood alone.




THE FUNERAL OF YOUTH: THRENODY


 The day that _Youth_ had died,
 There came to his grave-side,
 In decent mourning, from the county's ends,
 Those scatter'd friends
 Who had lived the boon companions of his prime,
 And laughed with him and sung with him and wasted,
 In feast and wine and many-crown'd carouse,
 The days and nights and dawnings of the time
 When _Youth_ kept open house,
 Nor left untasted
 Aught of his high emprise and ventures dear,
 No quest of his unshar'd--
 All these, with loitering feet and sad head bar'd,
 Followed their old friend's bier.
 _Folly_ went first,
 With muffled bells and coxcomb still revers'd;
 And after trod the bearers, hat in hand--
 _Laughter_, most hoarse, and Captain _Pride_ with tanned
 And martial face all grim, and fussy _Joy_,
 Who had to catch a train, and _Lust_, poor, snivelling boy;
 These bore the dear departed.
 Behind them, broken-hearted,
 Came _Grief_, so noisy a widow, that all said,
 "Had he but wed
 Her elder sister _Sorrow_, in her stead!"
 And by her, trying to soothe her all the time,
 The fatherless children, _Colour_, _Tune_, and _Rhyme_
 (The sweet lad _Rhyme_), ran all-uncomprehending.
 Then, at the way's sad ending,
 Round the raw grave they stay'd. Old _Wisdom_ read,
 In mumbling tone, the Service for the Dead.
 There stood _Romance_,
 The furrowing tears had mark'd her rougèd cheek;
 Poor old _Conceit_, his wonder unassuaged;
 Dead _Innocency's_ daughter, _Ignorance_;
 And shabby, ill-dress'd _Generosity_;
 And _Argument_, too full of woe to speak;
 _Passion_, grown portly, something middle-aged;
 And _Friendship_--not a minute older, she;
 _Impatience_, ever taking out his watch;
 _Faith_, who was deaf, and had to lean, to catch
 Old _Wisdom's_ endless drone.
 _Beauty_ was there,
 Pale in her black; dry-eyed; she stood alone.
 Poor maz'd _Imagination_; _Fancy_ wild;
 _Ardour_, the sunlight on his greying hair;
 _Contentment_, who had known _Youth_ as a child
 And never seen him since. And _Spring_ came too,
 Dancing over the tombs, and brought him flowers--
 She did not stay for long.
 And _Truth_, and _Grace_, and all the merry crew,
 The laughing _Winds_ and _Rivers_, and lithe _Hours_;
 And _Hope_, the dewy-eyed; and sorrowing _Song_;--
 Yes, with much woe and mourning general,
 At dead _Youth's_ funeral,
 Even these were met once more together, all,
 Who erst the fair and living _Youth_ did know;
 All, except only _Love_. _Love_ had died long ago.




GRANTCHESTER




THE OLD VICARAGE, GRANTCHESTER

(_Café des Westens, Berlin, May_ 1912)


 Just now the lilac is in bloom,
 All before my little room;
 And in my flower-beds, I think,
 Smile the carnation and the pink;
 And down the borders, well I know,
 The poppy and the pansy blow...
 Oh! there the chestnuts, summer through,
 Beside the river make for you
 A tunnel of green gloom, and sleep
 Deeply above; and green and deep
 The stream mysterious glides beneath,
 Green as a dream and deep as death.
 --Oh, damn! I know it! and I know
 How the May fields all golden show,
 And when the day is young and sweet,
 Gild gloriously the bare feet
 That run to bathe...
                   _Du lieber Gott!_

 Here am I, sweating, sick, and hot,
 And there the shadowed waters fresh
 Lean up to embrace the naked flesh.
 _Temperamentvoll_ German Jews
 Drink beer around;--and _there_ the dews
 Are soft beneath a morn of gold.
 Here tulips bloom as they are told;
 Unkempt about those hedges blows
 An English unofficial rose;
 And there the unregulated sun
 Slopes down to rest when day is done,
 And wakes a vague unpunctual star,
 A slippered Hesper; and there are
 Meads towards Haslingfield and Coton
 Where das _Betreten's_ not _verboten_.

 [Greek: eithe genoimên] ... Would I were
 In Grantchester, in Grantchester!--
 Some, it may be, can get in touch
 With Nature there, or Earth, or such.
 And clever modern men have seen
 A Faun a-peeping through the green,
 And felt the Classics were not dead,
 To glimpse a Naiad's reedy head,
 Or hear the Goat-foot piping low:...
 But these are things I do not know.
 I only know that you may lie
 Day long and watch the Cambridge sky,
 And, flower-lulled in sleepy grass,
 Hear the cool lapse of hours pass,
 Until the centuries blend and blur
 In Grantchester, in Grantchester....
 Still in the dawnlit waters cool
 His ghostly Lordship swims his pool,
 And tries the strokes, essays the tricks,
 Long learnt on Hellespont, or Styx.
 Dan Chaucer hears his river still
 Chatter beneath a phantom mill.
 Tennyson notes, with studious eye,
 How Cambridge waters hurry by...
 And in that garden, black and white,
 Creep whispers through the grass all night;
 And spectral dance, before the dawn,
 A hundred Vicars down the lawn;
 Curates, long dust, will come and go
 On lissom, clerical, printless toe;
 And oft between the boughs is seen
 The sly shade of a Rural Dean...
 Till, at a shiver in the skies,
 Vanishing with Satanic cries,
 The prim ecclesiastic rout
 Leaves but a startled sleeper-out,
 Grey heavens, the first bird's drowsy calls,
 The falling house that never falls.

 God! I will pack, and take a train,
 And get me to England once again!
 For England's the one land, I know,
 Where men with Splendid Hearts may go;
 And Cambridgeshire, of all England,
 The shire for Men who Understand;
 And of _that_ district I prefer
 The lovely hamlet Grantchester.
 For Cambridge people rarely smile,
 Being urban, squat, and packed with guile;
 And Royston men in the far South
 Are black and fierce and strange of mouth;
 At Over they fling oaths at one,
 And worse than oaths at Trumpington,
 And Ditton girls are mean and dirty,
 And there's none in Harston under thirty,
 And folks in Shelford and those parts
 Have twisted lips and twisted hearts,
 And Barton men make Cockney rhymes,
 And Coton's full of nameless crimes,
 And things are done you'd not believe
 At Madingley, on Christmas Eve.
 Strong men have run for miles and miles,
 When one from Cherry Hinton smiles;
 Strong men have blanched, and shot their wives,
 Rather than send them to St. Ives;
 Strong men have cried like babes, bydam,
 To hear what happened at Babraham.
 But Grantchester! ah, Grantchester!
 There's peace and holy quiet there,
 Great clouds along pacific skies,
 And men and women with straight eyes,
 Lithe children lovelier than a dream,
 A bosky wood, a slumbrous stream,
 And little kindly winds that creep
 Round twilight corners, half asleep.
 In Grantchester their skins are white;
 They bathe by day, they bathe by night;
 The women there do all they ought;
 The men observe the Rules of Thought.
 They love the Good; they worship Truth;
 They laugh uproariously in youth;
 (And when they get to feeling old,
 They up and shoot themselves, I'm told)...

   Ah God! to see the branches stir
 Across the moon at Grantchester!
 To smell the thrilling-sweet and rotten
 Unforgettable, unforgotten
 River-smell, and hear the breeze
 Sobbing in the little trees.
 Say, do the elm-clumps greatly stand
 Still guardians of that holy land?
 The chestnuts shade, in reverend dream,
 The yet unacademic stream?
 Is dawn a secret shy and cold
 Anadyomene, silver-gold?
 And sunset still a golden sea
 From Haslingfield to Madingley?
 And after, ere the night is born,
 Do hares come out about the corn?
 Oh, is the water sweet and cool,
 Gentle and brown, above the pool?
 And laughs the immortal river still
 Under the mill, under the mill?
 Say, is there Beauty yet to find?
 And Certainty? and Quiet kind?
 Deep meadows yet, for to forget
 The lies, and truths, and pain?... oh! yet
 Stands the Church clock at ten to three?
 And is there honey still for tea?




 PRINTED AT THE COMPLETE PRESS
 WEST NORWOOD
 LONDON



TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE:

Minor changes have been made to correct typesetters' errors; otherwise,
the book is a faithful transcript of the original physical book.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of 1914 and Other Poems, by Rupert Brooke

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 1914 AND OTHER POEMS ***

***** This file should be named 33902-8.txt or 33902-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/3/9/0/33902/

Produced by D Alexander and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
