Design is the creation of a plan or convention for the construction of an object, system or measurable human interaction (as in architectural blueprints, engineering drawings, business processes, circuit diagrams, and sewing patterns).[1] Design has different connotations in different fields (see design disciplines below). In some cases, the direct construction of an object (as in pottery, engineering, management, coding, and graphic design) is also considered to use design thinking.
Designing often necessitates considering the aesthetic, functional, economic, and sociopolitical dimensions of both the design object and design process. It may involve considerable research, thought, modeling, interactive adjustment, and re-design. Meanwhile, diverse kinds of objects may be designed, including clothing, graphical user interfaces, products, skyscrapers, corporate identities, business processes, and even methods or processes of designing.[2]
Thus "design" may be a substantive referring to a categorical abstraction of a created thing or things (the design of something), or a verb for the process of creation as is made clear by grammatical context.


More formally design has been defined as follows:
(noun) a specification of an object, manifested by an agent, intended to accomplish goals, in a particular environment, using a set of primitive components, satisfying a set of requirements, subject to constraints; (verb, transitive) to create a design, in an environment (where the designer operates)[3]
Another definition for design is "a roadmap or a strategic approach for someone to achieve a unique expectation. It defines the specifications, plans, parameters, costs, activities, processes and how and what to do within legal, political, social, environmental, safety and economic constraints in achieving that objective."[4]
Here, a "specification" can be manifested as either a plan or a finished product, and "primitives" are the elements from which the design object is composed.
With such a broad denotation, there is no universal language or unifying institution for designers of all disciplines. This allows for many differing philosophies and approaches toward the subject (see § Philosophies and studies of design, below).
The person designing is called a designer, which is also a term used for people who work professionally in one of the various design areas usually specifying which area is being dealt with (such as a textile designer, fashion designer, product designer, concept designer, web designer or interior designer). A designer's sequence of activities is called a design process while the scientific study of design is called design science.[5][6][7][8]
Another definition of design is planning to manufacture an object, system, component or structure. Thus the word "design" can be used as a noun or a verb. In a broader sense, design is an applied art and engineering that integrates with technology.
While the definition of design is fairly broad, design has a myriad of specifications that professionals utilize in their fields.
Substantial disagreement exists concerning how designers in many fields, whether amateur or professional, alone or in teams, produce designs. Kees Dorst and Judith Dijkhuis, both designers themselves, argued that "there are many ways of describing design processes" and discussed "two basic and fundamentally different ways",[9] both of which have several names. The prevailing view has been called "the rational model",[10] "technical problem solving"[11] and "the reason-centric perspective".[12] The alternative view has been called "reflection-in-action",[11] "evolutionary design",[8] "co-evolution",[13] and "the action-centric perspective".[12]
The rational model was independently developed by Herbert A. Simon,[14] an American scientist, and Gerhard Pahl and Wolfgang Beitz, two German engineering design theorists.[15] It posits that:
The rational model is based on a rationalist philosophy[10] and underlies the waterfall model,[16] systems development life cycle,[17] and much of the engineering design literature.[18] According to the rationalist philosophy, design is informed by research and knowledge in a predictable and controlled manner.
Typical stages consistent with the rational model include the following:
Each stage has many associated best practices.[20]
The rational model has been widely criticized on two primary grounds:
The action-centric perspective is a label given to a collection of interrelated concepts, which are antithetical to the rational model.[12] It posits that:
The action-centric perspective is based on an empiricist philosophy and broadly consistent with the agile approach[23] and amethodical development.[24] Substantial empirical evidence supports the veracity of this perspective in describing the actions of real designers.[21] Like the rational model, the action-centric model sees design as informed by research and knowledge. However, research and knowledge are brought into the design process through the judgment and common sense of designers – by designers "thinking on their feet" – more than through the predictable and controlled process stipulated by the rational model.
At least two views of design activity are consistent with the action-centric perspective. Both involve three basic activities.
In the reflection-in-action paradigm, designers alternate between "framing", "making moves", and "evaluating moves". "Framing" refers to conceptualizing the problem, i.e., defining goals and objectives. A "move" is a tentative design decision. The evaluation process may lead to further moves in the design.[11]
In the sensemaking–coevolution–implementation framework, designers alternate between its three titular activities. Sensemaking includes both framing and evaluating moves. Implementation is the process of constructing the design object. Coevolution is "the process where the design agent simultaneously refines its mental picture of the design object based on its mental picture of the context, and vice versa".[25]
The concept of the design cycle is understood as a circular time structure,[26] which may start with the thinking of an idea, then expressing it by the use of visual or verbal means of communication (design tools), the sharing and perceiving of the expressed idea, and finally starting a new cycle with the critical rethinking of the perceived idea. Anderson points out that this concept emphasizes the importance of the means of expression, which at the same time are means of perception of any design ideas.[27]
There are countless philosophies for guiding design as design values and its accompanying aspects within modern design vary, both between different schools of thought[which?] and among practicing designers.[28] Design philosophies are usually for determining design goals. A design goal may range from solving the least significant individual problem of the smallest element, to the most holistic influential utopian goals. Design goals are usually for guiding design. However, conflicts over immediate and minor goals may lead to questioning the purpose of design, perhaps to set better long term or ultimate goals. John Heskett, a 20th-century British writer on design claimed, "Design, stripped to its essence, can be defined as the human nature to shape and make our environment in ways without precedent in nature, to serve our needs and give meaning to our lives."[29]
Design philosophies are fundamental guiding principles that dictate how a designer approaches his/her practice. Reflections on material culture and environmental concerns (sustainable design) can guide a design philosophy. One example is the First Things First manifesto which was launched within the graphic design community and states "We propose a reversal of priorities in favor of more useful, lasting and democratic forms of communication – a mindshift away from product marketing and toward the exploration and production of a new kind of meaning. The scope of debate is shrinking; it must expand. Consumerism is running uncontested; it must be challenged by other perspectives expressed, in part, through the visual languages and resources of design."[30]
In The Sciences of the Artificial by polymath Herbert A. Simon, the author asserts design to be a meta-discipline of all professions. "Engineers are not the only professional designers. Everyone designs who devises courses of action aimed at changing existing situations into preferred ones. The intellectual activity that produces material artifacts is no different fundamentally from the one that prescribes remedies for a sick patient or the one that devises a new sales plan for a company or a social welfare policy for a state. Design, so construed, is the core of all professional training; it is the principal mark that distinguishes the professions from the sciences. Schools of engineering, as well as schools of architecture, business, education, law, and medicine, are all centrally concerned with the process of design."[31]
A design approach is a general philosophy that may or may not include a guide for specific methods. Some are to guide the overall goal of the design. Other approaches are to guide the tendencies of the designer. A combination of approaches may be used if they don't conflict.
Some popular approaches include:
Design methods is a broad area that focuses on:
The word "design" is often considered ambiguous, as it is applied in varying contexts.
Today, the term design is widely associated with the applied arts as initiated by Raymond Loewy and teachings at the Bauhaus and Ulm School of Design (HfG Ulm) in Germany during the 20th century.
The boundaries between art and design are blurred, largely due to a range of applications both for the term 'art' and the term 'design'. Applied arts has been used as an umbrella term to define fields of industrial design, graphic design, fashion design, etc. The term 'decorative arts' is a traditional term used in historical discourses to describe craft objects, and also sits within the umbrella of applied arts. In graphic arts (2D image making that ranges from photography to illustration), the distinction is often made between fine art and commercial art, based on the context within which the work is produced and how it is traded.
To a degree, some methods for creating work, such as employing intuition, are shared across the disciplines within the applied arts and fine art. Mark Getlein, writer, suggests the principles of design are "almost instinctive", "built-in", "natural", and part of "our sense of 'rightness'."[33] However, the intended application and context of the resulting works will vary greatly.
In engineering, design is a component of the engineering process. Many overlapping methods and processes can be seen when comparing Product design, Industrial design and Engineering. The American Heritage Dictionary defines design as: "To conceive or fashion in the mind; invent," and "To formulate a plan", and defines engineering as: "The application of scientific and mathematical principles to practical ends such as the design, manufacture, and operation of efficient and economical structures, machines, processes, and systems.".[34][35] Both are forms of problem-solving with a defined distinction being the application of "scientific and mathematical principles". The increasingly scientific focus of engineering in practice, however, has raised the importance of new more "human-centered" fields of design.[36] How much science is applied in a design is a question of what is considered "science". Along with the question of what is considered science, there is social science versus natural science. Scientists at Xerox PARC made the distinction of design versus engineering at "moving minds" versus "moving atoms" (probably in contradiction to the origin of term "engineering - engineer" from Latin "in genio" in meaning of a "genius" what assumes existence of a "mind" not of an "atom").
The relationship between design and production is one of planning and executing. In theory, the plan should anticipate and compensate for potential problems in the execution process. Design involves problem-solving and creativity. In contrast, production involves a routine or pre-planned process. A design may also be a mere plan that does not include a production or engineering processes although a working knowledge of such processes is usually expected of designers. In some cases, it may be unnecessary or impractical to expect a designer with a broad multidisciplinary knowledge required for such designs to also have a detailed specialized knowledge of how to produce the product.
Design and production are intertwined in many creative professional careers, meaning problem-solving is part of execution and the reverse. As the cost of rearrangement increases, the need for separating design from production increases as well. For example, a high-budget project, such as a skyscraper, requires separating (design) architecture from (production) construction. A Low-budget project, such as a locally printed office party invitation flyer, can be rearranged and printed dozens of times at the low cost of a few sheets of paper, a few drops of ink, and less than one hour's pay of a desktop publisher.
This is not to say that production never involves problem-solving or creativity, nor that design always involves creativity. Designs are rarely perfect and are sometimes repetitive. The imperfection of a design may task a production position (e.g. production artist, construction worker) with utilizing creativity or problem-solving skills to compensate for what was overlooked in the design process. Likewise, a design may be a simple repetition (copy) of a known preexisting solution, requiring minimal, if any, creativity or problem-solving skills from the designer.
"Process design" (in contrast to "design process" mentioned above) refers to the planning of routine steps of a process aside from the expected result. Processes (in general) are treated as a product of design, not the method of design. The term originated with the industrial designing of chemical processes. With the increasing complexities of the information age, consultants and executives have found the term useful to describe the design of business processes as well as manufacturing processes.
1540s, from Latin designare "mark out, devise, choose, designate, appoint," from de- "out" (see de-) + signare "to mark," from signum "a mark, sign" (see sign (n.)). Originally in English with the meaning now attached to designate; many modern uses of design are metaphoric extensions. Related: Designed; designing.
I'll send young Rapson, the architect, along to make a design.
They are apprehensive that Mr. Lovelace will be there with design to come home with me.
The mosaic border to the frame is quite unique in its design.
It was a thing that happened; there was no design in it; that would have been out of character.
Your design is great and noble; and I doubt not but God will bless ...
Gain access to thousands of additional definitions and advanced search features—ad free! JOIN NOW
An Encyclopædia Britannica Company
lowlife 'a person of low moral character'
kakistocracy 'government by the worst people'
slimeball 'a morally repulsive or odious person'
salacious 'arousing or appealing to sexual desire'
oligarch 'government in which a small group exercises control'
See design defined for English-language learners
See design defined for kids
A team of engineers designed the new engine.
Who designed the book's cover?
He designed the chair to adjust automatically.
They thought they could design the perfect crime.
design a strategy for battle

These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'design.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.

First Known Use: 14th century
arrange, blueprint, budget, calculate, chart, choreograph, frame, lay out, map (out), organize, plan, prepare, project, scheme (out), shape, strategize (about);
conspire, contrive, devise, intrigue, machinate, plot, put up;
concert, get up;
draft, outline, sketch;
aim, figure, have on, intend, mean;
contemplate, meditate, premeditate;
See design defined for English-language learners
There are problems with the design of the airplane's landing gear.
I like the design of the textbook.
I love the sculpture's design.
The machine had a flawed design.
the design and development of new products
Correcting mistakes is part of the design process.
a number of design concepts

These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'design.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.

First Known Use: 1565
arrangement, blueprint, game, game plan, ground plan, master plan, plan, program, project, scheme, strategy, system;
collusion, conspiracy, plot;
contrivance, device, gambit, maneuver, ruse, stratagem, subterfuge, trick;
counterplan, counterstrategy;
means, tactic, technique, way;
procedure, protocol;
conception, idea, projet, proposal, specific(s), specification(s);
aim, intent, intention, purpose;
diagram, formula, layout, map, pattern, platform, policy, recipe, setup;
: to plan and make decisions about (something that is being built or created) : to create the plans, drawings, etc., that show how (something) will be made
: to plan and make (something) for a specific use or purpose
: to think of (something, such as a plan) : to plan (something) in your mind
: the way something has been made : the way the parts of something (such as a building, machine, book, etc.) are formed and arranged for a particular use, effect, etc.
: the process of planning how something will look, happen, be made, etc. : the process of designing something
: a drawing of something that is being planned or created
See words that rhyme with design Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for design Spanish Central: Translation of design Nglish: Translation of design for Spanish speakers Britannica English: Translation of design for Arabic speakers
What made you want to look up design? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible).
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
marked by compact precise expression
Get Word of the Day daily email!
lowlife 'a person of low moral character'
kakistocracy 'government by the worst people'
slimeball 'a morally repulsive or odious person'
salacious 'arousing or appealing to sexual desire'
oligarch 'government in which a small group exercises control'
More Confusing Words—Quiz
Test your knowledge - and maybe learn something along the way.
Test Your Knowledge - and learn some interesting things along the way.
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
Shouldn't be hard to comprehend.
Theories from there to back again
'POS' means "part of speech," obviously
Don't set a precedence.
How we chose 'feminism'
Or, Why Pig Meat is Called 'Pork' and Cow Meat is Called 'Beef'
How to use a word that (literally) drives some people nuts.
The awkward case of 'his or her'
How many of these commonly confused words do you know?
It's all fun and games until someone beats your high score.
Test your knowledge - and maybe learn something along the way.
SCRABBLE® fans, sharpen your skills!
Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox!
OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES
FOLLOW US
© 2018 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated
Italian furniture brand Driade has worked with Studio Nucleo to transform some of its most iconic pieces into 3D-printed versions fit for future life on the moon. More
Parisian studio Secret d'Atelier has created a range of lacquered parquet flooring that references the hues featured in Le Corbusier's book on colour theory. More
Google and Instagram are among the leading global brands Dezeen is working with in Milan next week, in what is shaping up to be our busiest Milan design week ever. More
Dezeen promotion: huge wooden puppets and a retro American diner are among the exhibitions featuring in this year's edition of Ventura Centrale. More
For our latest competition, we're giving away a pair of limited-edition trainers by Swiss sports brand On, featuring rubber loops on the soles for extra cushioning. More
A Milan design week exhibition by Dassault Systèmes will showcase concepts to reduce air pollution by designers including Kengo Kuma, as revealed in this movie Dezeen produced for the 3D software brand. More
SP-Arte may be best known as Brazil's leading art fair, but it also provides a platform for young designers. Contributor Benoit Loiseau selects his highlights of the ones to watch at this year's event. More
Furniture brands who work with female designers shouldn't expect them to only produce feminine objects, according to Danish designer Cecilie Manz. More
Audi has transformed a virtual car design taken from video game Gran Turismo into a real-life racing vehicle. More
Dezeen promotion: Grohe is revealing its latest Atrio collection, a range of minimalist bathroom faucets, with an installation in Milan. More
Architect Safia Qureshi wanted to change the world but ended up designing private houses for rich people. So she invented Cupclub, a circular-economy service that could eliminate single-use coffee cups. As it launches in London, she spoke to Dezeen about the project. More
Dezeen promotion: trend forecaster Li Edelkoort is teaming up with Google to investigate how electronic devices of the future could become more tactile. More
Ronan and Erwan Bouroullec have worked alongside master glassmakers in Italy to create a collection of handmade objects, which they liken to still-life paintings by Italian artist Giorgio Morandi. More
In the latest movie in our Bolon at Heart series, Chinese architects Lyndon Neri and Rossana Hu explain how they referenced Swedish landscapes to showcase Bolon's new flooring collection in Stockholm and Milan. More
Music festivals like Coachella are changing the way people experience artworks and installations, according to American artist Phillip K Smith III. More
British designer Lara Bohinc was inspired by the shapes of planets and their orbits when designing her first collection of chairs. More
Start-up company Maude has created a range of gender-neutral sex products with a minimalist design, offering an alternative to those currently on the market. More
Airbus has revealed a series of designs that would transform aircraft cargo compartments into passenger sleeping quarters, complete with bunk-beds and meeting rooms. More
Dezeen promotion: iconic objects, prototypes and designs that never made it into production will be among the 200 pieces that Vitra will present during Milan design week this month. More
Simplehuman is offering a more hygienic approach to throwing away rubbish, with this smart bin that opens automatically by voice command or when it senses you waving your hand. More
Subscribe to our newsletters
milan design week 2018, held from april 17-22, encompasses the programs of salone del mobile – the annual international furniture exhibition staged at the halls of rho fiera; and fuorisalone – a set of events distributed across various areas of the city.
made entirely out of fashion, pentatonic 'new clothes' furnishings launch alongside the opening of the brand's pop-up store in le marais, paris.
made entirely out of fashion, pentatonic 'new clothes' furnishings launch alongside the opening of the brand's pop-up store in le marais, paris.
for his products, the designer uses carpets that witnessed the lives of the owners for years and years.
for his products, the designer uses carpets that witnessed the lives of the owners for years and years.
from 17 to 22 april, the glass company will present kosmos, a shimmering installation featuring its latest collaboations, at istituto dei ciechi and horah, a series of 30 moving »
from 17 to 22 april, the glass company will present kosmos, a shimmering installation featuring its latest collaboations, at istituto dei ciechi and horah, a series of 30 moving lamps by raw edges at spazio krizia.
with a shape inspired by the cognominal table game as know as 'reversi', the lamp is made of acrylic and PET felt.
with a shape inspired by the cognominal table game as know as 'reversi', the lamp is made of acrylic and PET felt.
a diverse digital database that acts as a valuable guide in gaining insight and information about a product directly from the manufacturer, and serves as a rich reference point in developing a project or scheme.
jan christian vestre and snøhetta's kjetil trædal thorsen talk sustainability, democratic design and the future of their continues collaboration.
jan christian vestre and snøhetta's kjetil trædal thorsen talk sustainability, democratic design and the future of their continues collaboration.
the capsule collection includes a series of burger inspired merchandise including a watch and a cap.
the capsule collection includes a series of burger inspired merchandise including a watch and a cap.
designed in collaboration with studiomama, the MINI LIVING - BUILT BY ALL installation highlights the importance of participation by empowering residents to get creative.
designed in collaboration with studiomama, the MINI LIVING - BUILT BY ALL installation highlights the importance of participation by empowering residents to get creative.
thanks to their spherical shape, the solar cells can absorb light from all directions, generating electricity when exposed to sunlight or indoor light.
thanks to their spherical shape, the solar cells can absorb light from all directions, generating electricity when exposed to sunlight or indoor light.
curated by maria cristina didero during milan design week 2018, the exhibit surveys work realized in compliance with the rules of a specific ethical position.
curated by maria cristina didero during milan design week 2018, the exhibit surveys work realized in compliance with the rules of a specific ethical position.
PART TWO of designboom's insider guide to milan design week satisfies your planning needs.
PART TWO of designboom's insider guide to milan design week satisfies your planning needs.
the vespampère features a dynamic, lightweight design that nods to the slimmer, stylish vespas rode by actors in neorealist films.
the vespampère features a dynamic, lightweight design that nods to the slimmer, stylish vespas rode by actors in neorealist films.
sleeping berths would fit inside the aircraft’s existing cargo compartments.
sleeping berths would fit inside the aircraft’s existing cargo compartments.
made out of multicolored complite, a type of plywood with much stronger qualities than normal wood, the two chairs will be launched during milan design week 2018.
made out of multicolored complite, a type of plywood with much stronger qualities than normal wood, the two chairs will be launched during milan design week 2018.
the unique kennels are being displayed around central london and will remain on view until april 26, 2018.
the unique kennels are being displayed around central london and will remain on view until april 26, 2018.
an autopsy found plastic bags, nets, ropes, plastic sacks, and even a plastic jerrycan in the whale's stomach and intestines.
an autopsy found plastic bags, nets, ropes, plastic sacks, and even a plastic jerrycan in the whale's stomach and intestines.
a minimal cat habitat (HOOP), and a graphic, cactus-shaped scratcher (VEGAS).
a minimal cat habitat (HOOP), and a graphic, cactus-shaped scratcher (VEGAS).
a 12-day stay costs includes a three-month training program before launch.
a 12-day stay costs includes a three-month training program before launch.
the sony hidden senses exhibition creates a sensorial experience where the relation between technology and human behavior is explored and enriched.
the sony hidden senses exhibition creates a sensorial experience where the relation between technology and human behavior is explored and enriched.
the branch will be located on the site of the shinpuhkan mall in central kyoto, featuring a design that embraces natural materials and light.
the branch will be located on the site of the shinpuhkan mall in central kyoto, featuring a design that embraces natural materials and light.
in the final model production, the studio tried to use the minimum amount of urethane spray that would still be strong enough for people to use.
in the final model production, the studio tried to use the minimum amount of urethane spray that would still be strong enough for people to use.
a diverse digital database that acts as a valuable guide in gaining insight and information about a product directly from the manufacturer, and serves as a rich reference point in developing a project or scheme.
skate and fashion brand supreme are collaborating with german luggage giant RIMOWA, releasing a teaser video of the upcoming collaboration on their official instagram account.
skate and fashion brand supreme are collaborating with german luggage giant RIMOWA, releasing a teaser video of the upcoming collaboration on their official instagram account.
the crystal grand maintains the iconic form of a traditional piano, while its inner workings are revealed within a delicately-crafted transparent cabinet.
the crystal grand maintains the iconic form of a traditional piano, while its inner workings are revealed within a delicately-crafted transparent cabinet.
lennon's is organized; bowie's is graphic; cohen's has style; but there is something magnetic about kurt's.
lennon's is organized; bowie's is graphic; cohen's has style; but there is something magnetic about kurt's.
equipped with drones for the first time, the archaeologists had a chance to study the 'nasca lines' as accurately as never before.
equipped with drones for the first time, the archaeologists had a chance to study the 'nasca lines' as accurately as never before.
designboom's insider guide to milan design week rounds up the top 30 in two parts to satisfy your planning needs.
designboom's insider guide to milan design week rounds up the top 30 in two parts to satisfy your planning needs.
what if a lamp helped us be aware of the value of light, energy, and money?
what if a lamp helped us be aware of the value of light, energy, and money?
the pieces are the latest in the continual development of a form language and a material language.
the pieces are the latest in the continual development of a form language and a material language.
the braun prize 2018 is an award for extraordinary ideas and product design concepts. submit your designs by april 20th to have a chance of winning $75,000 USD.
the braun prize 2018 is an award for extraordinary ideas and product design concepts. submit your designs by april 20th to have a chance of winning $75,000 USD.
Design is more than how it looks — it’s how it works. The Verge brings you the best of design from the web, the home, the software world, and architecture.
Its mascot is getting redrawn, too
Crazy fast, crazy expensive
What happens when you try to change behavior without behavioral science?
1950s-esque tabletop speakers
Like most robots, Kleo the Cat has a tough time moving around. But that could change soon. That's thanks to researchers at USC who are using lessons from biology to create more dexterous machines.
The architecture and design of the years-in-the-making Apple Park are brilliant. How it fits into the world around it? Not so much.
CNMN Collection
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement (effective 3/21/12) and privacy policy (effective 3/21/12). Affiliate link policy. Your California privacy rights. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
Google revealed yesterday that it’s planning to launch a new Gmail design in the coming weeks. The refreshed design will appear for Gmail users on the web, bringing it closer to the company’s tweaks for Gmail on mobile devices. The Verge has obtained screenshots of the new Gmail design, currently being tested inside Google and with trusted partners. The new design includes some subtle elements of Google’s Material Design, and a number of new features that were originally introduced for Google’s Inbox overhaul of Gmail.
Google is implementing smart replies for Gmail on the web, the same feature from mobile Gmail that provides suggestions to quickly reply to emails. A new snooze feature also lets you temporarily remove emails from your inbox until a certain time, so you can avoid certain email threads until you’re ready to reply. Snooze and Smart Reply are both currently part of Google’s Inbox app for Gmail, and both features are now making their way to Gmail on the web.
The new Gmail design also features a new sidebar, with the option of using Google’s calendar, Keep note-taking app, or tasks side-by-side with your email messages. This is perhaps the most useful part of the redesign that makes it easier to schedule meetings, or see when you’re free when replying to an email.
Google is providing three new layouts to choose from, including a default view that highlights attachments like documents and photos, a comfortable view that doesn’t highlight attachments, and a compact view that increases the amount of messages you can see on a single page. The compact view is the most similar to the existing Gmail design, allowing existing users to keep a similar layout.
None of the three new views and UI changes are as radical as the Inbox redesign that Google unveiled back in 2014. It’s not clear where this new Gmail redesign leaves Google’s Inbox project, especially as Gmail is now getting the Smart Reply and Snooze features from Inbox. It doesn’t look like Google is ready to radically redesign Gmail to its Inbox levels just yet, but Inbox could continue to exist as a way for the company to test new email features.
Google is now planning to make this new design available to G Suite and Gmail users in the coming weeks. Google’s I/O developer conference starts on May 8th in Mountain View, and it’s reasonable to assume this new Gmail design will be part of the many announcements at the show.
Command Line delivers daily updates from the near-future.
Have you ever seen subtle text openings and wondered how they came about?
This is a tale of three buttons and how a web developer who leans away from design made her front-end dreams come true.
