We use cookies to improve your experience with our site.Accept and close | More info.
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in Internet Explorer).
In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles and JavaScript.
Electronic devices are components for controlling the flow of electrical currents for the purpose of information processing and system control. Prominent examples include transistors and diodes. Electronic devices are usually small and can be grouped together into packages called integrated circuits. This miniaturization is central to the modern electronics boom.
Research | 13 April 2018 | open
Research | 12 April 2018 | open
Research | 12 April 2018 | open
Research | 12 April 2018 | open
Research | 09 April 2018
A new quasi-non-volatile 2D semi-floating gate memory with high speed and long refresh time could bridge the gap between volatile and non-volatile memory technologies.
Research | 10 April 2018 | open
Research Highlights | 20 March 2018
Research Highlights | 09 March 2018
News and Views | 09 March 2018
Flexible integrated circuits built using carbon nanotube thin-film transistors can offer sub-10 ns stage delays.
Comments and Opinion | 09 March 2018
Progress in portable and ubiquitous electronics would not be possible without rechargeable batteries. John B. Goodenough recounts the history of the lithium-ion rechargeable battery.
Editorial | 09 March 2018
Researchers in the field of carbon nanotube electronics continue to explore the potential of both high-performance and thin-film transistors.
Research Highlights | 06 March 2018
[1]Electronics is the science of dealing with the development and application of devices and systems involving the flow of electrons in a vacuum, in gaseous media, and in semiconductors. Electronics deals with electrical circuits that involve active electrical components such as vacuum tubes, transistors, diodes, integrated circuits, optoelectronics, and sensors, associated passive electrical components, and interconnection technologies. Commonly, electronic devices contain circuitry consisting primarily or exclusively of active semiconductors supplemented with passive elements; such a circuit is described as an electronic circuit.
The science of electronics is considered to be a branch of physics and electrical engineering.[2][3]
The nonlinear behaviour of active components and their ability to control electron flows makes amplification of weak signals possible. Electronics is widely used in information processing, telecommunication, and signal processing. The ability of electronic devices to act as switches makes digital information processing possible. Interconnection technologies such as circuit boards, electronics packaging technology, and other varied forms of communication infrastructure complete circuit functionality and transform the mixed components into a regular working system.
Electrical and electro-mechanical science and technology deals with the generation, distribution, switching, storage, and conversion of electrical energy to and from other energy forms (using wires, motors, generators, batteries, switches, relays, transformers, resistors, and other passive components). This distinction started around 1906 with the invention by Lee De Forest of the triode, which made electrical amplification of weak radio signals and audio signals possible with a non-mechanical device. Until 1950 this field was called "radio technology" because its principal application was the design and theory of radio transmitters, receivers, and vacuum tubes.
Today, most electronic devices use semiconductor components to perform electron control. The study of semiconductor devices and related technology is considered a branch of solid-state physics, whereas the design and construction of electronic circuits to solve practical problems come under electronics engineering. This article focuses on engineering aspects of electronics.


Electronics has branches as follows:
An electronic component is any physical entity in an electronic system used to affect the electrons or their associated fields in a manner consistent with the intended function of the electronic system. Components are generally intended to be connected together, usually by being soldered to a printed circuit board (PCB), to create an electronic circuit with a particular function (for example an amplifier, radio receiver, or oscillator). Components may be packaged singly, or in more complex groups as integrated circuits. Some common electronic components are capacitors, inductors, resistors, diodes, transistors, etc. Components are often categorized as active (e.g. transistors and thyristors) or passive (e.g. resistors, diodes, inductors and capacitors).[4]
Vacuum tubes (Thermionic valves) were among the earliest electronic components.[5] They were almost solely responsible for the electronics revolution of the first half of the twentieth century.[6][7] They took electronics from parlor tricks and gave us radio, television, phonographs, radar, long-distance telephony and much more. They played a leading role in the field of microwave and high power transmission as well as television receivers until the middle of the 1980s.[8] Since that time, solid-state devices have all but completely taken over. Vacuum tubes are still used in some specialist applications such as high power RF amplifiers, cathode ray tubes, specialist audio equipment, guitar amplifiers and some microwave devices.
In April 1955, the IBM 608 was the first IBM product to use transistor circuits without any vacuum tubes and is believed to be the first all-transistorized calculator to be manufactured for the commercial market.[9][10] The 608 contained more than 3,000 germanium transistors. Thomas J. Watson Jr. ordered all future IBM products to use transistors in their design. From that time on transistors were almost exclusively used for computer logic and peripherals.
Circuits and components can be divided into two groups: analog and digital. A particular device may consist of circuitry that has one or the other or a mix of the two types.
Most analog electronic appliances, such as radio receivers, are constructed from combinations of a few types of basic circuits. Analog circuits use a continuous range of voltage or current as opposed to discrete levels as in digital circuits.
The number of different analog circuits so far devised is huge, especially because a 'circuit' can be defined as anything from a single component, to systems containing thousands of components.
Analog circuits are sometimes called linear circuits although many non-linear effects are used in analog circuits such as mixers, modulators, etc. Good examples of analog circuits include vacuum tube and transistor amplifiers, operational amplifiers and oscillators.
One rarely finds modern circuits that are entirely analog. These days analog circuitry may use digital or even microprocessor techniques to improve performance. This type of circuit is usually called "mixed signal" rather than analog or digital.
Sometimes it may be difficult to differentiate between analog and digital circuits as they have elements of both linear and non-linear operation. An example is the comparator which takes in a continuous range of voltage but only outputs one of two levels as in a digital circuit. Similarly, an overdriven transistor amplifier can take on the characteristics of a controlled switch having essentially two levels of output. In fact, many digital circuits are actually implemented as variations of analog circuits similar to this example—after all, all aspects of the real physical world are essentially analog, so digital effects are only realized by constraining analog behavior.
Digital circuits are electric circuits based on a number of discrete voltage levels. Digital circuits are the most common physical representation of Boolean algebra, and are the basis of all digital computers. To most engineers, the terms "digital circuit", "digital system" and "logic" are interchangeable in the context of digital circuits. Most digital circuits use a binary system with two voltage levels labeled "0" and "1". Often logic "0" will be a lower voltage and referred to as "Low" while logic "1" is referred to as "High". However, some systems use the reverse definition ("0" is "High") or are current based. Quite often the logic designer may reverse these definitions from one circuit to the next as he sees fit to facilitate his design. The definition of the levels as "0" or "1" is arbitrary.
Ternary (with three states) logic has been studied, and some prototype computers made.
Computers, electronic clocks, and programmable logic controllers (used to control industrial processes) are constructed of digital circuits. Digital signal processors are another example.
Building blocks:
Highly integrated devices:
Heat generated by electronic circuitry must be dissipated to prevent immediate failure and improve long term reliability. Heat dissipation is mostly achieved by passive conduction/convection. Means to achieve greater dissipation include heat sinks and fans for air cooling, and other forms of computer cooling such as water cooling. These techniques use convection, conduction, and radiation of heat energy.
Electronic noise is defined[11] as unwanted disturbances superposed on a useful signal that tend to obscure its information content. Noise is not the same as signal distortion caused by a circuit. Noise is associated with all electronic circuits. Noise may be electromagnetically or thermally generated, which can be decreased by lowering the operating temperature of the circuit. Other types of noise, such as shot noise cannot be removed as they are due to limitations in physical properties.
Mathematical methods are integral to the study of electronics. To become proficient in electronics it is also necessary to become proficient in the mathematics of circuit analysis.
Circuit analysis is the study of methods of solving generally linear systems for unknown variables such as the voltage at a certain node or the current through a certain branch of a network. A common analytical tool for this is the SPICE circuit simulator.
Also important to electronics is the study and understanding of electromagnetic field theory.
Due to the complex nature of electronics theory, laboratory experimentation is an important part of the development of electronic devices. These experiments are used to test or verify the engineer’s design and detect errors. Historically, electronics labs have consisted of electronics devices and equipment located in a physical space, although in more recent years the trend has been towards electronics lab simulation software, such as CircuitLogix, Multisim, and PSpice.
Today's electronics engineers have the ability to design circuits using premanufactured building blocks such as power supplies, semiconductors (i.e. semiconductor devices, such as transistors), and integrated circuits. Electronic design automation software programs include schematic capture programs and printed circuit board design programs. Popular names in the EDA software world are NI Multisim, Cadence (ORCAD), EAGLE PCB and Schematic, Mentor (PADS PCB and LOGIC Schematic), Altium (Protel), LabCentre Electronics (Proteus), gEDA, KiCad and many others.
Many different methods of connecting components have been used over the years. For instance, early electronics often used point to point wiring with components attached to wooden breadboards to construct circuits. Cordwood construction and wire wrap were other methods used. Most modern day electronics now use printed circuit boards made of materials such as FR4, or the cheaper (and less hard-wearing) Synthetic Resin Bonded Paper (SRBP, also known as Paxoline/Paxolin (trade marks) and FR2) - characterised by its brown colour. Health and environmental concerns associated with electronics assembly have gained increased attention in recent years, especially for products destined to the European Union, with its Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS) and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE), which went into force in July 2006.
All content on this website, including dictionary, thesaurus, literature, geography, and other reference data is for informational purposes only. This information should not be considered complete, up to date, and is not intended to be used in place of a visit, consultation, or advice of a legal, medical, or any other professional.



The word electronics is derived from electron mechanics, which means to study the behavior of an electron under different conditions of applied electric field.
The branch of engineering in which the flow and control of electrons in vacuum or semiconductor are studied is called electronics. Electronics can also be defined as the branch of engineering in which the electronic devices and their utilization are studied.
The motion of electrons through a conductor gives us electric current. This electric current can be produced with the help of batteries and generators.
The device which controls the flow of electrons is called electronic device. These devices are the main building blocks of electronic circuits.

Electronics have various branches include, digital electronics, analog electronics, micro electronics, nanoelectronics, optoelectronics, integrated circuit and semiconductor device.
Diode vacuum tube was the first electronic component invented by J.A. Fleming. Later, Lee De Forest developed the triode, a three element vacuum tube capable of voltage amplification. Vacuum tubes played a major role in the field of microwave and high power transmission as well as television receivers.
In 1947, Bell laboratories developed the first transistor based on the research of Shockley, Bardeen and Brattain. However, transistor radios are not developed until the late 1950’s due to the existing huge stock of vacuum tubes.
In 1959, Jack Kilby of Texas Instruments developed the first integrated circuit. Integrated circuits contain large number of semiconductor devices such as diodes and transistors in very small area.
Electronic devices are playing a major role in everyday life. The various electronic devices we use in everyday life include
Today, computers are using everywhere. At home, computers are used for playing games, watching movies, doing research, paying bills and reservation of tickets for railways and airlines. At school, students use computers to complete their assignments.
Mobile phones are used for variety of purposes such as for sending text messages, making voice calls, surfing internet, playing games, and listening songs.
ATM is an electronic telecommunication device particularly used for withdrawing money at any time from anywhere. ATM stands for automated teller machine. The customer can withdraw money up to a certain limit during anytime of the day or night.
Pen drive is particularly used for storing large amount of data and also used for transferring data from one device to another. For example, the data stored in the computer can be transferred to the pen drive. The data stored in this pen drive can be retrieved at anytime.
Television is an electronic device primarily used for entertainment and knowledge. It is used for watching movies for entertainment, news for knowledge, cartoons for children’s.
Digital camera is a camera used for taking pictures and videos. This images and videos are stored for later reproduction.










Vanessa Romo
Joel Rose
Travelers pass through security at Los Angeles International Airport in 2014. David McNew/Getty Images hide caption
Travelers pass through security at Los Angeles International Airport in 2014.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents need to have "reasonable suspicion" to carry out "advanced" searches on electronic devices, including smartphones and tablets, that belong to individuals entering or exiting the country, the agency announced Friday.
The updated rules allow agents to continue to inspect information that's stored on a device, not in the cloud. But from now on, they can't copy that information or connect to an external device to analyze the contents, unless they have reasonable suspicion of criminal behavior.
"In this digital age, border searches of electronic devices are essential to enforcing the law at the U.S. border and to protecting the American people," John Wagner, Deputy Executive Assistant Commissioner, Office of Field Operations, said in a statement.
"CBP's authority for the border search of electronic devices is and will continue to be exercised judiciously, responsibly, and consistent with the public trust," he added.
The new directive instructs agents to demonstrate reasonable suspicion of unlawful activity or show that there is a "national security concern" in order to conduct advanced searches.
CBP agents inspected 30,200 phones and other devices during the last fiscal year. That's a jump of more than 60 percent from 2016.
Officials stress that those searches represent just a tiny fraction of all arriving international travelers — .007 percent. And that they're necessary to combat terrorism, child pornography and other crimes.
"CBP border searches of electronic devices have resulted in evidence helpful in combating terrorist activity, child pornography, violations of export controls, intellectual property rights violations, and visa fraud," the agency said in a statement.
The change in guidelines marks a shift from 2009 Obama-era policy.
The ACLU called that an improvement, but said the government shouldn't be able to search devices without a warrant.
In a statement, ACLU legislative counsel Neema Singh Guliani, said:
"It is positive that CBP's policy would at least require officers to have some level of suspicion before copying and using electronic methods to search a traveler's electronic device. However, this policy still falls far short of what the Constitution requires — a search warrant based on probable cause. ...
"Additionally, it fails to make clear that travelers should not be under any obligation to provide passcodes or other assistance to officers seeking to access their private information. Congress should continue to press CBP to improve its policy."

An earlier version of this story incorrectly referred to U. S. Customs and Border Patrol. The correct name of the agency is U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

The Two-Way is the place to come for breaking news, analysis and for stories that are just too interesting – or too entertaining – to pass up. Get in touch with your questions, comments and leads.
NPR thanks our sponsors
Become an NPR sponsor
I just don't like telly, to be honest. I don't see why people obsess about it so much, blabbing on about the wonders of television. If I had to get rid of either my television or my laptop, I would get rid of my television. I don't like the programs, it's often rude and offensive and the children's channel is full of some things that really should be saved for the eighteen-and-over channels, they're really not age appropriate. Eight year olds should not be hearing about sex and heavy drinking, and some of these drama programs give completely the wrong idea. Plus, telly is not useful. No, no, no, no and no, I definitely do not agree.
Television is most useful to ourself
It's true period
Television is the best thing to watch when the generator is going.
Apple introduced the iphone in 2007, and it literally changed the world and how people go about doing their daily activities. It was also the product that paved the way for all other smart phone companies. If you don't believe me, just take a lot at the smart phones that were out before the iphone and what they were capable of.
Look at the original iPhone's keynote, and people were cheering at things as simple as scrolling through music on the touch screen. - railfan99
This is the best because I'm not interested in television and I don't even know what a play station or a psp is. Though I had a hard choice between iphone and wii even if I didn't have one. But does this mean that psp and iphone is tie?
I love my iPhone I would not be able to live with out it!
Best. Ever. Obviously. I have a iPhone and a couple iPads. No computer.
Computers are definitely the best! So many thing you can do with them: Play games/call people/watch TV/take photos and most importantly of course: surf the web! It's great that Nintendo DS comes before Television though!
Laptops/ computers are the best electronic device. Laptops can be taken anywhere and internet is easily available. Computers or laptops are made joining many devices, as we can say one device is better than many, as what they provide are same-player, speaker, internet, can call online (as in mobiles or telephones), watch movies as on television, etc... I say it is the best device which is very much necessary in the modern world not only in the terms of development but also it is very useful in the modern life style or in busy life.
It has almost every feature of others gadgets, from cell phone to gaming. Computer with net is a lethal combination.
Love Gaming
I love taking pictures, so, I really like cameras
Cameras are really good if you want to keep track on things you have done long time ago.
A photo can last forever but a text can't
Camera is most important for our life
It's a very popular device that is fun to play with family and friends.
So many memories of throwing my controller at the wall - YOSHIA2121
Really fun to play games on
You need a Wii remote to play this
The latest kindle is the kindle fire HDX I have it and it is amazing!
They r so useful
So handy I just love that you don't need to grab something bigger
I think kindles are fun you can have games shows and more
I have ps vita. It's great electronic device. I think it's world best AR & electronic device...
Awesome! One of the best technology devise ever.
PlayStation rooks they're WAY better than Nintendo by far
cool
These are the best machines in the entire world guys! this is apples best product yet! you should go buy your self one today guys!
Cooking is basic to human needs. Electric or microwave ovens do this.
It is very good gadget
Apple makes some great ovens u guys like even better than the phone 15 xl rawr
It's amazing apples best product it is #1 it has a big screen it is thin you can call some one with FaceTime It has 10! Hour battery life you can take amazing photos and video you get photo booth automatically etc... Who wouldn't want one
How seriously is electric lamp beating this. You can do a million things more with this. I even have one
Love I pads! They are great!
I have an ipad pro
The Xbox should be in the top ten because it can do many things and is much better than the PlayStation 3 and you can watch films, play online and chat with your friends!
I think the Xbox 360 is the best because it can do as many thing as a computer and more!
Xbox is one of the greatest things invented so it should be at least in the top 5
So many games
This be the most bought device on the entire world, EVERYONE BUY A SAMSUNG TODAY!
Samsung should be number one
Lol it sucks apple is better buy an iPhone. Catch up
I have one and it is ok
It is a very use ful item and you can straten your hair with it. They are also kid safe and very useful when going out to see a movie and you can also store it esaisly when it is still on and they don't burn you.
Good touse and is helpful
If your hair is no straight you can straight it
It's so nice
At the present, we can't spend even a single night without electric lamp. Every work takes place with its help. And it is growing more and more important. Even in hilly and village areas the use of electric lamp is spreading.
Show the electronic devices with pictures
Because I want to made a model on it so please help me to made it
This is the best hat ever !
There are very useful at present to wash clothes. And it has made a helpful way for many women. The new technology saves time.
It is very useful for washing and drying I when I use it my clothes are always clean.
Fabulous bby
Pagal hai jo is ko parraha hai amaki churan
What is a bolometer
I have 7 at home
Good luck and best wishes
What is this
I have one and there great for keeping your favorite tunes.
Panda brua I got broads in atlanta
It's the best
Ye I love ipods
Do you think we can spend a night without fan or ac? No. We can see the fan running even at day time in school, offices and in houses. It is widely used all over the world.
Always useful on a summer day...
Need it to survive - YOSHIA2121
Best means of communication... Easy to handle... Most of the people have this kind of gadget... (", )
Most people who have a phone get so addicted to them that the forget about any one else
They are my life
yeah same
Play Station 3 Is just awesome. Great experience and is a brand of sony with ultimate 3dness
PlayStation 3 with all its exclusive features, the operating system, the themes, the dolby sound quality and everything... Its simply awesome!
Best console of its time.
PS3 is the best better than Xbox
Great consle. You can take it on the go and there are so many versions of it. It has many great games. It is better than psp. I have a ds lite and it is awesome, so take it from me, it's great
ds rules whats not to love
It is the best, because you can do so many things on it! My favorite games are Style Savvy trendsetters and the New leaf game
Its awesome
Printer is very useful in the modern world. It is better than copying down from the computer and it also saves a lot of time. And it makes the work easy.
Seriously a printer just write your darn letters to people
I have one their so much fun! )
ITS GREAT VOTE FOR IT
I'm going to buy hp pavillion x360
BUY IT please
I had one of those the other day but I sold for dinner
I chucked mine out the window
The epitome of quality gaming.Yes there are bigger and better consoles, but gamers we born into that era (ps1 too).
Some really cool games you could play, and watch movies, listen to music... There was nothing wrong with PS2 why stop making them! Yes PS3-4... is better but so what!
It is cool
PC is definitely the best, it has a larger screen, a really powerful processor. I loveee it!
It works in the woods
It does not work
''Look honey, I'm doing a broadcast here, do you mind''?
I think they are petty cool like the Apple Watch
It is totally the best - venomouskillingmachine
My nan died on it
Don't swear matey
same
The phone charger is given to charging in my phone. The charger is not have so you don't used a phone no charger no phone so charger is very important to phone
Next to the wheel the remote control with the MUTE button is required to get through most commercials and talking heads. - mgenet
Without these. we can't save our data
It is 1000 times more capacity than human brain
You can do anything on here, camera, free texting, use for light, games, and its not so small you can just fit in in your pocket.
To ensure that no one gets an unfair advantage on test day, test center staff are required to collect and hold cell phones and other prohibited electronic devices during the test administration. You may not use or access the device until testing is complete.
Test centers are serious about security and quiet, so prohibited devices must be turned off and collected. Whenever possible, leave these devices at home.
If your device makes noise or you are seen using it at any time before testing is complete, including during breaks, it is grounds for immediate dismissal and score cancellation. The device may be confiscated and its contents inspected. The College Board is not responsible for loss or damage to personal items, including electronic devices, while you are in the test center.
When you enter the testing room, be sure to disable any alarms (including your watch alarm, if you have one) and power off all cell phones and other electronic devices.
Follow the proctor's instructions regarding device collection.
Your devices should remain off during testing.
You may not use or access these devices during breaks. If you use prohibited devices before testing is complete your scores will be canceled.
After testing is complete, you may retrieve your devices when the proctor indicates it is okay to do so.
Prohibited devices include, but are not limited to:
Find out what else you should leave at home on test day—and what you need to bring with you.
Get the checklist.

Skip to Main Content

IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices publishes original and significant contributions relating to the theory, modeling, design, performance and reliability of electron and ion integrated circuit devices and interconnects.

Editor-in-Chief
Giovanni Ghione Politecnico di Torino, 10129 Torino, Italy
Phone +39 011 090 4064 email giovanni.ghione@polito.it
Includes the top 50 most frequently accessed documents for this publication according to the usage statistics for the month of February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017

The historical and technological development of the ubiquitous trench power MOSFET (or vertical trench VDMOS) is described. Overcoming the deficiencies of VMOS and planar VDMOS, trench VDMOS innovations include pioneering efforts in reactive ion etching and oxidation of the silicon trench gate, polysilicon fill and recessed etchback, unit cell and distributed voltage clamping to protect the trench... View full abstract»
Photodetectors (PDs) used in communication systems require ultrafast response, high efficiency, and low noise. PDs with such characteristics are increasingly in demand for data centers, metro data links, and long-haul optical networks. In a surface-illuminated PD, high speed and high efficiency are often a tradeoff, since a high-speed device needs a thin absorption layer to reduce the carrier tran... View full abstract»
In this paper, we present a comprehensive review and discussion of the state-of-the-art device technology and application development of GaN-on-Si power electronics. Several device technologies for realizing normally off operation that is highly desirable for power switching applications are presented. In addition, the examples of circuit applications that can greatly benefit from the superior per... View full abstract»
The technological development of application specific VDMOS and lateral trench power MOSFETs is described. Unlike general-purpose trench vertical DMOS, application specific trench DMOS comprise devices merged or optimized for a specific function or characteristic. Examples include the bidirectional lithium ion battery disconnect switch, the airbag squib driver with safety redundancy, the antilock ... View full abstract»
In this paper, a 1.1-μm-pitch 33-Mpixel 240-fps backside-illuminated 3-D-stacked CMOS image sensor with three-stage cyclic-cyclic-successive-approximation-register (SAR) analog-to-digital converters (ADCs) is developed. The narrow-pitch interconnection technology that connects the pixels and arrayed ADCs inside the pixel area is described. The 3-D-stacked architecture, constructed using the... View full abstract»
Thermionic energy converter (TEC) is a heat engine that generates electricity directly using heat as its source of energy and electron as its working fluid. Despite having a huge potential as an efficient direct energy conversion device, the progress in vacuum-based thermionic energy converter development has always been hindered by the space charge problem and the unavailability of materials with... View full abstract»
We report a monolithically integrated 3-D metal-oxide memristor crossbar circuit suitable for analog, and in particular, neuromorphic computing applications. The demonstrated crossbar is based on Pt/Al2O3/TiO2-x/TiN/Pt memristors and consists of a stack of two passive 10 × 10 crossbars with shared middle electrodes. The fabrication process has a low, less th... View full abstract»
A 256 × 256 single-photon avalanche diode image sensor operating at 100kfps with fill factor of 61% and pixel pitch of 16 μm is reported. An all-nMOS 7T pixel allows gated operation down to 4 ns and ~600-ps fall time with on-chip delay generation. The sensor operates with 0.996 temporal aperture ratio in rolling shutter. Gating and cooling allow the suppression of dark noise, which, ... View full abstract»
Negative capacitance field effect transistor (NCFET) is designed in 5-nm FinFET node, which simultaneously meets the low-power and high-performance targets of ION and IOFF at Vdd = 0.5 V and Vdd = 0.23 V, respectively, while the international roadmap for devices and systems (ITRS 2.0) projected Vdd is 0.65 V for both. The impact of power suppl... View full abstract»
The ability to monolithically integrate high-speed photodetectors (PDs) with silicon (Si) can contribute to drastic reduction in cost. Such PDs are envisioned to be integral parts of high-speed optical interconnects in the future intrachip, chip-to-chip, board-to-board, rack-to-rack, and intra-/interdata center links. Si-based PDs are of special interest since they present the potential for monoli... View full abstract»
We present a comprehensive comparison of the two different types of ferroelectric negative capacitance FET (NCFET) structures: metal-ferroelectric-metal-insulator-semiconductor (MFMIS) and metal-ferroelectric-insulator-semiconductor (MFIS). A new segmentation approach is proposed to simulate MFIS NCFET, which correctly takes care of the nonuniformity in potential and horizontal electric field at t... View full abstract»
Organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) are remarkably promising display devices that can function in mechanically flexible configurations on a plastic substrate due to various compelling properties, including organic constituents, ultrathin and simple structure, and low-temperature fabrication. In spite of successful demonstrations of flexible OLEDs, some technical issues of containing relatively t... View full abstract»
An analytical compact model for 2-D crystal FETs is proposed. It provides an explicit expression for the drain current as a function of the gate and drain voltages considering Fermi-Dirac statistics and drift-diffusion transport. The model is applicable to n-type or p-type symmetric and asymmetric double gate devices as well as single gate transistors. It is validated against experimental results ... View full abstract»
In this paper, we demonstrate that the lateral band-to-band tunneling component of gate-induced drain leakage (GIDL) leads to the formation of a parasitic bipolar junction transistor (BJT) in the OFF-state (gate voltage = 0.0 V) of nanowire FETs (NW FETs). We discuss in detail the difference in the nature of GIDL, i.e., drain current dependence on the negative gate voltage (VGS ≤ 0 V) for d... View full abstract»
With the purpose to increase the threshold voltage of the enhancement mode GaN high-electron mobility transistors, we fabricated devices with gate field plates on the p-GaN/AlGaN/GaN/AlGaN double heterostructures. We observed an existence of a subthreshold region from the current-voltage transfer curves. The threshold voltage of the device extracted based on linear extrapolation method is much hig... View full abstract»
This paper measures the n- and p-MOSFETs fabricated through 65-nm high- k/metal gate CMOSFET process flow. The [110] channels of the Si cap on SiGe with different width (W) and length (L) ratios were compared with Si-only channels. The results show that a high W-L ratio in the [110] n-channel can alleviate the degradation of biaxial compressive stress. Meanwhile, a low W-L ratio in the p-channel c... View full abstract»
GaN based HFETs are of tremendous interest in applications requiring high power at microwave frequencies. Although excellent current-voltage (I-V) characteristics and record high output power densities at microwave frequencies have been achieved, the origin of the 2DEG and the factors limiting the output power and reliability of the devices under high power operation remain uncertain. Drain curren... View full abstract»
Here, we report a unified analytical model for the 2-D electron gas density (nS) in AlGaN/GaN HEMTs, considering the carriers induced in the AlGaN layer (nB) to satisfy charge balance at high gate bias. To extend the validity of our model for gate voltages below the off voltage, we have merged a popular subthreshold model to our model using an interpolation function. Our model for nB is fully anal... View full abstract»
An analytical expression has been derived for the electron and hole mobility in silicon based on both experimental data and modified Brooks-Herring theory of mobility. The resulting expression allows one to obtain electron and hole mobility as a function of concentration up tosim 10^{20}cm-3in an extended and continuous temperature range (250-500 K) within ± 13 percent o... View full abstract»
In this paper, a new method for equivalent oxide thickness extraction from accumulation capacitance measurements is proposed, which is suitable for fully depleted channels with a body contact such as bulk fin field-effect transistor (FinFET) devices. First, the limitation of the previous approaches reported in the literature is discussed. A new implicit relationship between the semiconductor charg... View full abstract»
A parameter extraction methodology of statistical process variations in FinFET is presented in this paper. First, the main impacts of various variation sources are decomposed, with detailed discussion on the correlation between threshold voltage and subthreshold swing. Second, following the Fin-edge roughness (FER) and gate-edge roughness (GER) compact models, the physical parameters, autocorrelat... View full abstract»
The multilevel capability of metal oxide resistive switching memory was explored for the potential use as a single-element electronic synapse device. TiN/HfOx/AlOx/ Pt resistive switching cells were fabricated. Multilevel resistance states were obtained by varying the programming voltage amplitudes during the pulse cycling. The cell conductance could be continuously increased or decr... View full abstract»
In this paper, we report the successful demonstration of current aperture vertical electron transistors (CAVETs) obtained by using a novel implantation-based compensation method to achieve a conductive aperture. This innovation leads to the first demonstration of “regrowth-free” CAVETs. Two gallium nitride (GaN) CAVETs were fabricated using the ion-implantation-compensated aperture r... View full abstract»
We model the effects of cross-sectional radius scaling on C-V and I-V characteristics of gate-all-around FETs (GAAFETs), capturing the continuous transition from a 3-D electron system to a 1-D electron system. We have obtained computationally efficient models for effective mass, bandgap, and subband energies as functions of the cross-sectional radius and gate voltage based on simple approximate an... View full abstract»
State-of-the-art silicon interposer technology of chip-on-wafer-on-substrate (CoWoS) containing the second-generation high bandwidth memory (HBM) has been applied for the first time in fabricating high-performance wafer-level system-in-package. An ultralarge Si interposer up to 1200 mm2 made by a two-mask stitching process is used to form the basis of the second-generation CoWoS (CoWoS-... View full abstract»
Displays based on microsized gallium nitride light-emitting diodes possess extraordinary brightness. It is demonstrated here both theoretically and experimentally that the layout of the n-contact in these devices is important for the best device performance. We highlight, in particular, the significance of a nonthermal increase of differential resistance upon multipixel operation. These findings u... View full abstract»
A printed electronics technology has the advantage of additive and extremely low-cost fabrication compared with the conventional silicon technology. Specifically, printed electrolyte-gated field-effect transistors (EGFETs) are attractive for low-cost applications in the Internet-of-Things domain as they can operate at low supply voltages. In this paper, we propose an empirical dc model for EGFETs,... View full abstract»
We report the first demonstration of ultralow leakage AlGaN/GaN MOS-HEMTs on silicon substrates loaded at the source with atomic layer deposition (ALD)grown VO2 metal-insulator transition (MIT) material resistors. The resulting GaN phase-transition FET (phase-FET) shows steep sub-Boltzmann switching in its transfer characteristics in both sweep directions with slopes of ~9.9 and ~28.2 m... View full abstract»
Gate leakage mechanisms in AlInN/GaN and AlGaN/GaN metal insulator semiconductor high-electron-mobility transistors (MIS-HEMTs) with SiNx as gate dielectric have been investigated. It is found that the conduction in the reverse gate bias is due to Poole-Frenkel emission for both MIS-HEMTs. The dominant conduction mechanism in low to medium forward bias is trap-assisted tunneling while i... View full abstract»
Physics-based models for calculating the threshold voltage (Vth) of GaN-based high electron mobility transistor (HEMT) is proposed. Assuming that the 2-D electron gas in III-V heterostructures originate from donor-like surface states, an analytical expression for φb is derived based on the condition of charge neutrality across the barrier layer and applied to develop V... View full abstract»
Flicker noise is the dominant noise source in silicon MOSFET's. Even though considerable amount of work has been done in investigating the noise mechanism, controversy still exists as to the noise origin. In this paper, a systematic study of flicker noise in CMOS transistors from twelve different fabricators is reported under various bias conditions corresponding to the gate voltage changing from ... View full abstract»
A comprehensive modeling framework is presented to predict the time kinetics of negative bias temperature instability stress and recovery during and after dc and ac stresses and also during mixed dc-ac stress. The model uses uncorrelated contributions from the generation of interface and bulk traps and hole trapping in preexisting bulk traps. Ultrafast measured data at different stresses and recov... View full abstract»
A gate engineered InGaN dopingless tunnel FET (DL-TFET) using the charge plasma concept is proposed and investigated by silvaco Atlas simulation. In0.75Ga0.25N is a direct gap semiconductor, and the effective tunneling mass of electron and hole is smaller than that of silicon, which induces that the drain current and average subthreshold swing (SSavg) of InGaN DL-TFET improve... View full abstract»
In this paper, lateral gate-all-around nano-sheet transistors (NSH-FETs) are explored from intrinsic performance to dc and ring oscillator (RO) benchmark compared with FinFETs and nanowire transistors (NW-FETs) for sub-7-nm node. The band structure calculated technology computer aided design results show comparable intrinsic performance to FinFETs at same channel cross section. On top of that, dc ... View full abstract»
The aim of this paper is an investigation of electric field-dependent drift velocity characteristics for Al0.3Ga0.7N/AlN/GaN heterostructures without and with in situ Si3N4 passivation. The nanosecond-pulsed current- voltage (I-V) measurements were performed using a 20-ns applied pulse. Electron drift velocity depending on the electric field was obtained... View full abstract»
Phase-change memory (PCM) has undergone significant academic and industrial research in the last 15 years. After much development, it is now poised to enter the market as a storage-class memory (SCM), with performance and cost between that of NAND flash and DRAM. In this paper, we review the history of phase-transforming chalcogenides leading up to our current understanding of PCM as either a stor... View full abstract»
Intrinsic parameter fluctuations introduced by discreteness of charge and matter will play an increasingly important role when semiconductor devices are scaled to decananometer and nanometer dimensions in next-generation integrated circuits and systems. In this paper, we review the analytical and the numerical simulation techniques used to study and predict such intrinsic parameters fluctuations. ... View full abstract»
From man-made satellites and interplanetary missions to fusion power plants, electronic equipment that needs to withstand various forms of irradiation is an essential part of their operation. Examination of total ionizing dose (TID) effects in electronic equipment can provide a thorough means to predict their reliability in conditions where ionizing dose becomes a serious hazard. In this paper, we... View full abstract»
In this paper, we propose and validate a novel design for a double-gate tunnel field-effect transistor (DG tunnel FET), for which the simulations show significant improvements compared with single-gate devices using a gate dielectric. For the first time, DG tunnel FET devices, which are using a high-gate dielectric, are explored using realistic design parameters, showing an on-current as high as 0... View full abstract»
In this paper, we investigate the impact of gate-source/drain underlap on short-channel behavior of junctionless (JL) transistor through a quasi-analytical model and 2-D numerical simulations. The proposed five-region model for potential is developed for the symmetric mode operation of double-gate (DG) JL MOSFET in the subthreshold regime, to predict and minimize short-channel effects (SCEs) using... View full abstract»
An AlGaN/GaN metal-oxide-semiconductor high-electron mobility transistor (MOS-HEMT) that uses a high-k TiO2 gate insulator is demonstrated. TiO2 films are annealed at 300 °C and 600 °C in N2 or O2 following the deposition of an oxide layer. Experimental results reveal that the 300 °C N2-annealed TiO2/GaN MOS cap... View full abstract»
In this paper, we report state-of-the-art high frequency performance of GaN-based high electron mobility transistors (HEMTs) and Schottky diodes achieved through innovative device scaling technologies such as vertically scaled enhancement and depletion mode (E/D mode) AlN/GaN/AlGaN double-heterojunction HEMT epitaxial structures, a low-resistance n+-GaN/2DEG ohmic contact regrown by MBE... View full abstract»
In recent years, 3-D GaN-based transistors have been intensively studied for their dramatically improved performance. However, thermal analysis of such devices is often oversimplified using the conventional Fourier's law in thermal simulations. In this aspect, accurate temperature predictions can be achieved by coupled phonon and electron Monte Carlo (MC) simulations that track the movement and sc... View full abstract»
This paper demonstrates the use of double-gate accumulation mode (AM) and junctionless (JL) transistors for dynamic memory applications at 85 °C. The doping dependent assessments of AM and JL devices include an analysis of storage volume, carrier lifetime, and depth of potential well to determine characteristics of Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM). This paper shows significant impact of ... View full abstract»
Numerical simulations are used to guide the development of a simple analytical theory for ballistic field-effect transistors. When two-dimensional (2-D) electrostatic effects are small (and when the insulator capacitance is much less than the semiconductor (quantum) capacitance), the model reduces to Natori's theory of the ballistic MOSFET. The model also treats 2-D electrostatics and the quantum ... View full abstract»
Anomalous transconductance with nonmonotonic back-gate bias dependence observed in the fully depleted silicon-on-insulator (FDSOI) MOSFET with thick front-gate oxide is discussed. It is found that the anomalous transconductance is attributed to the domination of the back-channel charge in the total channel charge. This behavior is modeled with a novel two-mobility model, which separates the mobili... View full abstract»
A compact analytical drain current model considering the inversion layer and source depletion is developed for the gate-all-around (GAA) heterojunction tunneling FET (H-TFET) with staggered-gap alignment. Poisson's equations are solved to obtain the continuous surface potential profile for the GAA H-TFET first, then the drain current is derived based on Kane's model by using the tangent line appro... View full abstract»
In this paper, we propose and demonstrate a novel technique for true random number generation using commercial off-the-shelf Flash memory. Flash memory cells are known to exhibit thermal noise and random telegraph noise during sensing of their threshold voltage. In order to extract this inherent noise properties of the Flash memory bits through a standard digital Flash memory interface, we utilize... View full abstract»
Neuromorphic architectures are hardware systems that aim to use the principles of neural function for their basis of operation. Their goal is to harness biologically inspired concepts such as weighted connections, activation thresholds, short-and long-term potentiation, and inhibition to solve problems in distributed computation. Compared with today's methods of emulating neural function in softwa... View full abstract»
A device design technique using tunneling barriers (TBs) for reducing the short-channel effects (SCEs) is proposed. By introducing TBs at the source and drain junctions of a Si FET, the threshold voltage (Vth) rolloff can be significantly suppressed. This is because the TBs weaken the electrical coupling between drain bias and transmission/current spectrum in energy. Specifically, as compared with... View full abstract»

IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices publishes original and significant contributions relating to the theory, modeling, design, performance and reliability of electron and ion integrated circuit devices and interconnects.

Editor-in-Chief
Giovanni Ghione Politecnico di Torino, 10129 Torino, Italy
Phone +39 011 090 4064 email giovanni.ghione@polito.it

IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices publishes original and significant contributions relating to the theory, modeling, design, performance and reliability of electron and ion integrated circuit devices and interconnects, involving insulators, metals, organic materials, micro-plasmas, semiconductors, quantum-effect structures, vacuum devices, and emerging materials with applications in bioelectronics, biomedical electronics, computation, communications, displays, microelectromechanics, imaging, micro-actuators, nanoelectronics, optoelectronics, photovoltaics, power ICs and micro-sensors. Tutorial and review papers on these subjects are also published and occasional special issues appear to present a collection of papers which treat particular areas in more depth and breadth.


Persistent Link: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/servlet/opac?punumber=16 More »
Frequency: 12
ISSN: 0018-9383
Publication Details: Learn More and Submit to IEEE Transactions on Electron Devices
Published by:
Publications Office Contact: Marlene James 445 Hoes Lane Piscataway, NJ 08854 08854 USA m.james@ieee.org
Editor-in-Chief Giovanni Ghione Politecnico di Torino, Dipartimento di Elettronica e Telecomunicazioni Corso Duca degli Abruzzi 24 10129 TORINO, Italy Phone +39 011 090 4064 Fax +39 011 090 4099 email giovanni.ghione@polito.it
Editor-in-Chief
Giovanni Ghione Politecnico di Torino, 10129 Torino, Italy
Phone +39 011 090 4064 email giovanni.ghione@polito.it
A not-for-profit organization, IEEE is the world's largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity. © Copyright 2018 IEEE - All rights reserved. Use of this web site signifies your agreement to the terms and conditions.
