The eyebrow is an area of thick, delicate hairs above the eye that follows the shape of the lower margin of the brow ridges of some mammals. Their main function is to prevent sweat, water, and other debris from falling down into the eye socket, but they are also important to human communication and facial expression. It is common for people to modify their eyebrows by means of hair removal and makeup.

It is believed by anthropologists that the main function of the eyebrow is to prevent moisture, mostly salty sweat and rain, from flowing into the eye. Greek physician Herophilos, in his treatise "Anatomy," was among the first to hypothesize such a theory, proposing that the eyebrows are "adorned with hair, so that if copious perspiration came [down], it would be contained by this 'check-point' of hair placed in its way until it is wiped off, so that it could not obstruct the eyes." The typical curved shape of the eyebrow (with a slant on the side) and the direction in which eyebrow hairs are pointed, make sure that moisture has a tendency to flow sideways around the eyes, along the side of the head and along the nose. The slightly protruding brow ridges of modern humans could also be used as a defense structure against the floods of moisture. Desmond Morris, discussing the possible function of the eyebrow in human evolution, criticized this suggestion as non-effective [1] and suggested that the primary function of the eyebrows is to signal the changing moods of their owners. Together with the brow ridges, the eyebrows also shade the eyes from sunlight. Eyebrows also prevent debris such as dandruff and other small objects from falling into the eyes, as well as providing a more sensitive sense for detecting objects being near the eye, like small insects.
Eyebrows have a facilitative function in communication, strengthening expressions, such as surprise or anger. The eyebrows can cause a "false facial expression", when a person's eyebrow shape appears to express an emotion that they are not experiencing.[citation needed]
Joseph Jordania suggested that the primary evolutionary function of clearly visible eyebrows was safety from predators during the vulnerable nighttime sleep, when early hominid groups started sleeping on the ground, away from the trees. Stealth predators (like big cats) as a rule stop hunting if they notice that prey animals are watching them. Cheap plastic masks, placed on the back of the head, saved many human lives in India and Bangladesh, where man-eating tigers claimed many victims in Sundarbans national park.[citation needed] Many predators (particularly big cats) are very sensitive to eyespots, and all the big cats have eyespots on the back of their own ears. According to Jordania, at night, when hominid eyes were closed, the eyebrows, arched upwards, and eyelashes, arched downwards, formed clearly definable oval eyespots on a ‘sleeping’ human face, creating an illusion that the eyes were still open and watching (and therefore could deter predators from attacking sleeping hominids).[2]
In the 1920s eyebrows were worn ultra thin, with a slightly pronounced curve, in order to emulate movie stars such as Clara Bow and Anna May Wong. Stars in the 1930s ditched the sloped look of the previous decade for a rounded upward bend. They also began to fill in their brows with a darker hue, emphasizing the bend. Trends remained similar until the 1960s, when Audrey Hepburn and her thick natural brows, inspired women to fill in their brows to achieve a fuller look.
Eyebrows are a major facial feature. Cosmetic methods have been developed to alter the look of one's eyebrows, whether the goal is to add or remove hair, change the color, or change the position of the eyebrow.
Several options exist for removing hair to achieve a thinner or smaller eyebrow, or to "correct" a unibrow, including manual and electronic tweezing, waxing, and threading. The most common method is to use tweezers to thin out and shape the eyebrow. Waxing is becoming more popular.[3] Lastly, there is threading eyebrows, where a cotton thread is rolled over hair to pull it out. Small scissors are sometimes used to trim the eyebrows, either with another method of hair removal or alone. All of these methods can be painful for some seconds or minutes due to the sensitivity of the area around the eye but, often, this pain decreases over time as the individual becomes used to it. In time, hair that has been plucked will stop growing back.[4] Some people wax or shave off their eyebrows and leave them bare, stencil or draw them in with eye liner, or tattoo them on. In Western societies, it has become more common for men to pluck part of their eyebrows.
To create a fuller look, eyebrows can be cloned in an eyebrow transplant: Individual strands of the eyebrow are mimicked to create a natural-looking eyebrow of the desired shape. The process of eyebrow transplant is quite similar to the process of hair transplant. In this process as well, follicles from an active area are transferred to the area where there are no hairs so that they can get new hairs. Follicles are mostly taken from the back of the head because it is the best harvesting site when it comes to hairs. The follicles are injected to the affected area of eyebrows so people can get eyebrows according to the desires.
The healing process after an eyebrow transplant is similar to the process of tattoo. In this process, patients come across with light bruising and crusting of the skin. People who have genetically thin eyebrows or who has overtweezed are considered ideal fir the transplant.
Eyebrow brushes and shaders are used to further define the eyebrow. Other methods of achieving a fuller brow is by using brow pencils, which create an outline for the brows or mimick hairs where there are sparse areas. Brow gels are also used in creating a thicker brow; it allows for the hairs to be more textured, which gives the appearance of thicker and more fuller brows. Lastly, brow powders or even eyeshadows are used for those who want a fuller and more natural look, by placing the brow powder or eyeshadow (closest to the natural hair colour) in areas where there is less hair.
A fairly recent trend in eyebrow modification is in eyebrow tinting: Permanent dye, similar to hair colour, is used on the eyebrow, often to darken them.
An eyebrow lift, a cosmetic surgery to raise the eyebrow, usually to create a more feminine or youthful appearance, is a new phenomenon.[5] They can be affected during a face lift or an eye lift. More recently, doctors inject patients' eyebrows with botox or similar toxins to temporarily raise the eyebrow.[6]
From the 8th century, many Japanese noblewomen practiced hikimayu, shaving or plucking the eyebrow hair and painting smudge-like ones higher on the forehead. Shaving lines in eyebrows is another cosmetic alteration, more common among younger people in the 1990s and 2000s.[7]
A new trend is eyebrow tattoos. This is seen as a way to achieve and maintain an eyebrow shape, achieved by using a coil machine, rotary machine and linear machine. This process, also called cosmetic tattooing, microblading, or blade & shade brows, involves an eyebrow artist making small, precise cuts that mimic the look of hair.[8] Several celebrities have undergone the procedure, including Lorde, Lena Dunham, Adele, and Bella Thorne.[9]
Eyebrows often thicken with puberty.
Eyebrows can be used to convey emotion, such as surprise.
One of Audrey Hepburn's trademarks was her thick eyebrows.
A young adult with hair between the eyebrows - a unibrow

Paul Wigens (drums, violin) / Pete Judge (trumpet, electronics)
Eyebrow is a trumpet and drums duo based in Bristol, UK, formed in 2009. Its music evolves out of improvisations which are reassembled into structured pieces with an unexpectedly cinematic sweep, like journeys through slowly-changing landscapes.

The band’s 5th album, Strata, was released in October 2017, and has been featured on BBC Radio 3’s Late Junction and BBC 6Music’s Freak Zone.
All Eyebrow’s albums are available to download at: https://eyebrow.bandcamp.com/
“One of the most beguiling records I’ve heard in ages: music of quiet imagination and intimate beauty. I hope a lot of people get to enjoy it” (Richard Williams, thebluemoment.com)
“Full of clever textures & engagingly atmospheric” (Verity Sharp, BBC Radio 3’s Late Junction)
“An organic dabble in electronic possibilities” (Jazzwise)
“Evocative music with a strongly atmospheric and highly cinematic quality” (The Jazz Mann)
“They continually surprise, charm and challenge, creating very personal and distinctive music that is always, vividly alive. A genuine Bristol treasure” (jazzyblogman.wordpress.com)
“Amazingly symphonic. The ideal place for their music would be a cathedral, perhaps, or a clifftop, or maybe an asteroid” (The Bristol Post)
“Sepulchral, dappled trumpet and real live meaty drums; Eyebrow have been doing this kind of thing for a long time and have become very good at it. ‘Thaw’ – an insistent rhythmic ear-worm – is a belter” (Independent on Sunday)
“Bristol’s answer to Nordic Noir, the spare precision of drumkit paired with haunting FX-mutated trumpet echoing back from a cliff-bound fjord has an ageless simplicity that belies how subtle and clever the music is” (Bristol 24/7)
“Underneath floating clouds of trumpet come real drums, simple and perfect. It sounds like two real people are in a room somewhere, playing this stratospheric music. Simplicity and humanity: it is beautiful.” (Listomania Bath)
“The music is so damn beautiful. Right now it feels like essential listening” (Steve Day)
“Atmospheric, haunting, fascinating. Four stars” (AllAboutJazz)
“Unique avant garde soundscapes that draw you in and melt your troubles away” (JPSMusic)
“Trumpet, drums and electronics combine to produce bewitching soundscapes, minimal yet rich and moving” (London Jazz News)
24th May 2018, 8pmMore info » Tickets »
26th May 2018, tbcMore info » Tickets »
Looking for eyebrow makeup? We’re here to help. Our wide selection of brow perfectors include everything from eyebrow pencils to eyebrow powder, gel & more.
Sort by

Your cart is currently empty.
Humans lost their strong brow ridges as social communication became more important, researchers say
Ian Sample Science editor
Mon 9 Apr 2018 16.27 BST Last modified on Mon 9 Apr 2018 22.00 BST
Modern humans might never have raised a quizzical eyebrow had Homo sapiens not lost the thick, bony brows of its ancient ancestors in favour of smoother facial features, a new study suggests.
Researchers at the University of York believe early humans bore prominent brow ridges as a mark of physical dominance, and as the human face evolved to become smaller and flatter, it became a canvas on which the eyebrows could portray a much richer range of emotions.
“We traded dominance or aggression for a wider palette of expression,” said Paul O’Higgins, a professor of anatomy and lead author on the study. “As the face became smaller and the forehead flattened, the muscles in the face could move the eyebrows up and down and we could express all these subtler feelings.”
The York team stress their conclusions are speculative, but if they are right, the evolution of smaller, flatter faces may have unleashed the social power of the eyebrow, allowing humans to communicate at a distance in more complex and nuanced ways.
“We moved from a position where we wanted to compete, where looking more intimidating was an advantage, to one where it was better to get on with people, to recognise each other from afar with an eyebrow flash, and to sympathise and so on,” said Penny Spikins, a palaeolithic archaeologist at York and co-author on the study, published in Nature Ecology & Evolution.
The scientists set out to investigate why ancient humans had such prominent brow ridges in the first place. Over the years, researchers have put forward a range of hypotheses. One idea states that the ridge simply filled the gap that would otherwise exist between the protruding face and the braincase. Another argues that a prominent brow served as structural reinforcement, ensuring the face could take the stress of powerful chewing.
Working with their colleague Ricardo Godinho, the researchers obtained a 3D x-ray scan of an ancient skull belonging to a human ancestor called Homo heidelbergensis that lived in what is now Zambia between 300,000 and 125,000 years ago. Known as Kabwe 1, the skull displayed a thick brow ridge that was even more prominent than the ones seen on Neanderthals.
Using computer models, the scientists performed a series of experiments on the virtual skull. First, they looked at how much brow bone was needed if its purpose was to plug the gap between the face and the braincase. “We shaved away the bone to get the minimum needed to fill the gap and found we could reduce its size dramatically,” O’Higgins said. “The skull has far more bone than is needed to fill the gap.”
Next, the researchers looked at how the stress of chewing spread over the face with and without the brow ridge. Again, it seemed to make little difference. “We fully expected serious consequences for the face, but nothing happened. It’s clear that this is not about resisting bending in the face,” O’Higgins said. “What we are left with is the plausibility of a social explanation.”
It is unclear what factors led the human face to become smaller over time and lose its thick brow ridges, but a flatter face may have paved the way for richer human communication and with that the greater collaboration that emerged with the rise of Homo sapiens. In Homo heidelbergensis and other ancestors, the thick brow signified physical strength at the apparent expense of eyebrow gymnastics: in those early humans, the muscles that moved the eyebrows simply pulled them back and forth over their brows.
Given the importance of eyebrows in human communication, it is not clear why other primates do not use them more, said Robin Dunbar, professor of evolutionary psychology at Oxford University. “It is plausible to suggest that it has something to do with increased need for more complex communication in the larger social groups that evolved late during the course of human evolution,” he said.
Rachael Jack, who studies human social interaction at the University of Glasgow, said the expressive value of eyebrows made them “strong candidates for evolution to pick them up as social signallers.” But she added: “The human face has many more muscles though, which are likely to have contributed substantially to the development of socially sophisticated communication, group cohesiveness and functioning, and therefore survival and progress. So I’m not totally convinced that eyebrows are the missing part of the puzzle.”
Advertisement
Trilobites
By DOUGLAS QUENQUA APRIL 13, 2018
Eyebrows have become an obsession of late, tattooed or microbladed, shaped and drawn in bold dark lines, making a statement far beyond braiding or waxing.
Lifting one and not the other often signals disbelief, amusement, curiosity. Raising both can suggest surprise or dismay. But it wasn’t always that way.
Early humans had thick, bony brow ridges that were far less nimble than ours, incapable of expressing much of anything beyond, “Don’t mess with me, Thag.”
Scientists have long thought those brows served some structural purpose, like support for chewing prehistoric food. That they could also be used to signal aggression or intimidate competitors was largely dismissed as an evolutionary perk, as were the more flamboyant brows of modern humans.
Advertisement
But when Ricardo Miguel Godinho, an evolutionary anthropologist at the University of York, made digital recreations of a skull believed to be 300,000 to 125,000 years old, he found no evidence that its brow ridges provided any of the practical benefits suggested by earlier studies. “He tested out the different possible explanations, and, effectively, there’s no reason for it,” said Penny Spikins, an anthropologist who conducted the study with Dr. Godinho.
Advertisement
The findings, published April 9 in Nature Ecology & Evolution, suggest that the human brow has always been a primarily social tool, and that the smoother foreheads and expressive brows of modern humans may have evolved to accommodate our increasingly complex relationships.
“With a flatter, more vertical forehead, that whole area above the eyes becomes much more mobile, and the muscles can make some really subtle communicative gestures,” Dr. Spikins said. And those gestures, like lifting your eyebrows to show you recognize someone, she said, “tend to be more about expressing friendliness than intimidation.”
Though such a hypothesis is difficult to test without a time machine, Dr. Spikins said it emerged from the real-life observations of Paul O’Higgins, a co-author of the study. “Paul was frustrated that his daughters spent so much time in the bathroom mirror perfecting their eyebrows, and was saying, ‘What are eyebrows for?’” she recalled. “That’s when we thought maybe this is actually quite important.”
Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.
We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think.
See More »
Go to Home Page »


From Middle English eȝebreu, alteration of Old English ēaganbrū (“eyebrow”), equivalent to eye +‎ brow. The corresponding Old English ēagbrǣw meant "eyelid". Compare Dutch oogbrauw (“eyelid; eyelash; eyebrow”), German Augenbraue (“eyebrow”).
eyebrow (plural eyebrows)
Please login to write a review
You are currently shipping to United Kingdom. You can amend this by selecting a country below.
Welcome!
You’ve selected an age restricted product. To buy this product, you’ll need to login to your account and meet the age requirements.
Sign in
Date of birth: We need to confirm your date of birth in order to add this product to your basket.
Refine by
Is your brow game strong? Need to shape or tame those arches? Shop our huge range of eyebrow pomades, eyebrow growth serums, tints and gels. Everything you need for perfect eyebrows
Is your brow game strong? Shop our huge range of eyebrow pomades, eyebrow growth serums, tints and gels.
Your search has returned 222 results.


£4.62 per 10g
£4.62 per 10g
£61.46 per 100g



£1.78 per 10g
£61.46 per 100g


£4.62 per 10g

£4.31 per 10g
£4.62 per 10g




£2.08 per 10g



Pharmacy Medicine Products
This is a Pharmacy Medicine item. We will ask you to complete a questionnaire to ensure this is appropriate for you which our pharmacist will check.
Follow us
You are currently shipping to United Kingdom. You can amend this by selecting a country below.
Session timeout
Please click here to login.
