Bitte aktiviere JavaScript in deinem Browser oder installiere einen Browser, der JavaScript unterstützt, um dich für Facebook zu registrieren.
Indem du auf „Konto erstellen“ klickst, erklärst du dich mit unseren Nutzungsbedingungen einverstanden und bestätigst, dass du unsere Datenrichtlinie einschließlich unserer Cookie-Richtlinie gelesen hast. Eventuell erhältst du SMS-Benachrichtigungen von Facebook, die du jederzeit abbestellen kannst.
App Store
Google Play
april
14apr7:30 pm- 9:30 pmSangre de Cristo Arts Center210 N Sante Fe Avenue Pueblo, CO
Face is pleased to be bringing their all-vocal rock to Pueblo and the Sangre de Cristo Arts Center! Tickets $20 Time: 7:30pm Purchase Tickets Online: Click here to buy online
Face is pleased to be bringing their all-vocal rock to Pueblo and the Sangre de Cristo Arts Center!
Tickets $20 Time: 7:30pm
Purchase Tickets Online: Click here to buy online
(Saturday) 7:30 pm - 9:30 pm
210 N Sante Fe Avenue Pueblo, CO
210 N Sante Fe Avenue Pueblo, CO
CalendarGoogleCal

19apr8:00 pm- 10:00 pmSoiled Dove7401 E. 1st Ave Denver, CO
Face is back at the Dove! Come join us for some awesome all-vocal rock in this wonderful Denver venue! Tickets $18, $22 Ticket Purchase Info To Come Purchase Tickets Online:
Face is back at the Dove! Come join us for some awesome all-vocal rock in this wonderful Denver venue!
Tickets $18, $22 Ticket Purchase Info To Come Purchase Tickets Online: Click here to buy online
(Thursday) 8:00 pm - 10:00 pm
7401 E. 1st Ave Denver, CO
7401 E. 1st Ave Denver, CO
CalendarGoogleCal

24apr7:30 pm- 9:30 pmNissi's Bistro2675 Northpark Drive, Lafayette CO 80026
Doors: 6:30 pm Perform: 7:30 pm Price: $20 in advance Tickets: Click here to buy online Venue is 21+
Doors: 6:30 pm Perform: 7:30 pm Price: $20 in advance Tickets: Click here to buy online
Venue is 21+
(Tuesday) 7:30 pm - 9:30 pm
2675 Northpark Drive, Lafayette CO 80026
2675 Northpark Drive, Lafayette CO 80026
CalendarGoogleCal

30apr5:00 pm- 9:00 pmCliff's Crusade
Face is thrilled to be performing at a wonderful event to help raise money for a local cancer fundraiser. 5:30 pm Spaghetti Dinner 7pm Face performs Sign Up here $25 students
more
Face is thrilled to be performing at a wonderful event to help raise money for a local cancer fundraiser.
5:30 pm Spaghetti Dinner 7pm Face performs
Sign Up here
$25 students / $30 adults For more information contact Suzanne at 970-203-5884 or go to letsplanetgiving.org
(Monday) 5:00 pm - 9:00 pm
CalendarGoogleCal
First Name *
Last Name *
Email *
Yes, I would like to receive emails from Face Vocal Band. (You can unsubscribe anytime)

Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
BROCKHAMPTON TOUR TICKETS ON SALE: http://brckhmptn.com/dates/ Directed by Kevin Abstract DP - Ashlan Grey Edit / Color - Henock Sileshi Filmed in South Central, Los Angeles, California, USA STREAM "SATURATION II": Apple Music: https://itunes.apple.com/us/album/sat... Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/album/0XnqQz... http://instagram.com/brckhmptn http://twitter.com/brckhmptn
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Working...
Loading playlists...
The face is a central body region of sense and is also very central in the expression of emotion among humans and among numerous other species. The face is normally found on the anterior (frontal, rostral) surface of the head of animals[citation needed] or humans,[1] although not all animals have faces.[2] The face is crucial for human identity, and damage such as scarring or developmental deformities have effects stretching beyond those of solely physical inconvenience.[1]


The front of the human head is called the face. It includes several distinct areas,[3] of which the main features are:
Facial appearance is vital for human recognition and communication. Facial muscles in humans allow expression of emotions.
The face is itself a highly sensitive region of the human body and its expression may change when the brain is stimulated by any of the many human senses, such as touch, temperature, smell, taste, hearing, movement, hunger, or visual stimuli.[4]
The face is the feature which best distinguishes a person. Specialized regions of the human brain, such as the fusiform face area (FFA), enable facial recognition; when these are damaged, it may be impossible to recognize faces even of intimate family members. The pattern of specific organs, such as the eyes, or of parts of them, is used in biometric identification to uniquely identify individuals.
The shape of the face is influenced by the bone-structure of the skull, and each face is unique through the anatomical variation present in the bones of the viscerocranium (and neurocranium).[1] The bones involved in shaping the face are mainly the maxilla, mandible, nasal bone and zygomatic bone. Also important are various soft tissues, such as fat, hair and skin (of which color may vary).[1]
The face changes over time, and features common in children or babies, such as prominent buccal fat-pads disappear over time, their role in the infant being to stabilize the cheeks during suckling. While the buccal fat-pads often diminish in size, the prominence of bones increase with age as they grow and develop.[1]
Facial shape is an important determinant of beauty, particularly facial symmetry.
Faces are essential to expressing emotion, consciously or unconsciously. A frown denotes disapproval; a smile usually means someone is pleased. Being able to read emotion in another's face is "the fundamental basis for empathy and the ability to interpret a person’s reactions and predict the probability of ensuing behaviors". One study used the Multimodal Emotion Recognition Test[5] to attempt to determine how to measure emotion. This research aimed at using a measuring device to accomplish what people do so easily everyday: read emotion in a face.[6]
The muscles of the face play a prominent role in the expression of emotion,[1] and vary among different individuals, giving rise to additional diversity in expression and facial features.[7]
People are also relatively good at determining if a smile is real or fake. A recent study looked at individuals judging forced and genuine smiles. While young and elderly participants equally could tell the difference for smiling young people, the "older adult participants outperformed young adult participants in distinguishing between posed and spontaneous smiles".[8] This suggests that with experience and age, we become more accurate at perceiving true emotions across various age groups.
Gestalt psychologists theorize that a face is not merely a set of facial features, but is rather something meaningful in its form. This is consistent with the Gestalt theory that an image is seen in its entirety, not by its individual parts. According to Gary L. Allen, people adapted to respond more to faces during evolution as the natural result of being a social species. Allen suggests that the purpose of recognizing faces has its roots in the "parent-infant attraction, a quick and low-effort means by which parents and infants form an internal representation of each other, reducing the likelihood that the parent will abandon his or her offspring because of recognition failure".[9] Allen's work takes a psychological perspective that combines evolutionary theories with Gestalt psychology.
Research has indicated that certain areas of the brain respond particularly well to faces. The fusiform face area, within the fusiform gyrus, is activated by faces, and it is activated differently for shy and social people. A study confirmed that "when viewing images of strangers, shy adults exhibited significantly less activation in the fusiform gyri than did social adults".[10] Furthermore, particular areas respond more to a face that is considered attractive, as seen in another study: "Facial beauty evokes a widely distributed neural network involving perceptual, decision-making and reward circuits. In those experiments, the perceptual response across FFA and LOC remained present even when subjects were not attending explicitly to facial beauty".[11]
Cosmetic surgery can be used to alter the appearance of the facial features.[12] Maxillofacial surgery may also be used in cases of facial trauma, injury to the face and skin diseases. Severely disfigured individuals have recently received full face transplants and partial transplants of skin and muscle tissue.[13]
Caricatures often exaggerate facial features to make a face more easily recognized in association with a pronounced portion of the face of the individual in question—for example, a caricature of Osama bin Laden might focus on his facial hair and nose; a caricature of George W. Bush might enlarge his ears to the size of an elephant's; a caricature of Jay Leno may pronounce his head and chin; and a caricature of Mick Jagger might enlarge his lips. Exaggeration of memorable features helps people to recognize others when presented in a caricature form.[14]
By extension, anything which is the forward or world-facing part of a system which has internal structure is considered its "face", like the façade of a building. For example, a public relations or press officer might be called the "face" of the organization he or she represents. "Face" is also used metaphorically in a sociological context to refer to reputation or standing in society, particularly Chinese society,[15] and is spoken of as a resource which can be won or lost. Because of the association with individuality, the anonymous person is sometimes referred to as "faceless".
In Islamic jurisprudence, the hands and the face are an exception while the rest of the female body is considered awrah.[16]
A new study published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology posits there's a good chance you can tell if someone is rich or poor just by looking at them.
"The relationship between well-being and social class has been demonstrated by previous research," R. Thora Bjornsdottir, a graduate student at the University of Toronto and co-author of the study, tells CNBC Make It. In general, people with money tend to live happier, less anxious lives compared to those struggling to make ends meet. She and her team demonstrated "that these well-being differences are actually reflected in people's faces."
Bjornsdottir and her co-author, psychology professor Nicholas O. Rule, had undergraduate subjects of various ethnicities look at gray-scale photographs of 80 white males and 80 white females. None showed any tattoos or piercings. Half of the photos were of people who made over $150,000 a year, which they designated as upper class, and the other half were people who made under $35,000, or working class.
When the subjects were asked to guess the class of the people in the photos, they did so correctly 68 percent of the time, significantly higher than random chance.
"I didn't think the effects would be quite as strong, especially given how subtle the differences are" in the faces, Rule told The Cut. "That's the most surprising part of the study to me."
"People are not really aware of what cues they are using when they make these judgments," Bjornsdottir told the University of Toronto. "If you ask them why, they don't know. They are not aware of how they are doing this."
But the researchers wanted to know, so they zoomed in on facial features. They found that subjects were still able to guess correctly when they just looked at the eyes, and the mouth was an even better clue. But neither isolated part was as a reliable an indicator as the whole face.
The effect is "likely due to emotion patterns becoming etched into their faces over time," says Bjornsdottir. The chronic contraction of certain muscles can actually lead to changes in the structure of your face that others can pick up on, even if they aren't aware of it.
When the researchers showed the undergrads photos of people looking visibly happy, they could not discern socioeconomic status any better than chance. The expressions needed to be neutral for the subtle cues to have an effect.
"Over time, your face comes to permanently reflect and reveal your experiences," Rule told the University of Toronto. "Even when we think we're not expressing something, relics of those emotions are still there."
Finally, to show how these kinds of first impressions could come into play in the real world, they asked the undergrads to decide who in the photos would be most likely to land a job as an accountant. More often than not, they went with people from the upper class, showing how these kinds of snap judgment can create and reinforce biases.
"Face-based perceptions of social class may have important downstream consequences," they concluded.
"People talk about the cycle of poverty," Rule said, "and this is potentially one contributor to that."
Like this story? Like CNBC Make It on Facebook!
Don't miss: Here's the 'ideal income' for the typical American family


Playing
Share this video...
Watch Next...
No products in the cart.

Get 10% off when you sign up for our newsletter!

No thanks
Advertisement
Supported by
Op-Ed Contributor
By P. Sainath
Mr. Sainath has reported on rural India for more than two decades.
MUMBAI, India — On March 6, about 40,000 subsistence farmers and landless peasants, many from impoverished indigenous tribes, marched to Mumbai from Nashik, a city 112 miles northeast of India’s commercial capital. The sea of humanity flooding the highway to Mumbai captured national attention and focused it on the problems tormenting the marchers and tens of millions of other farmers in the country’s two-decade-long agrarian crisis.
Most of the farmers in the protest owned less than five acres each. Many marchers who couldn’t afford shoes walked barefoot in the searing heat. Some of them had wrapped their soles with sellotape to prevent blisters. They were headed for Azad Maidan, a traditional venue for political protests in South Mumbai.
On March 11, without resting from their exhausting journey, they walked the last 10 miles to the venue after midnight, in darkness and silence. Thousands of students in the city had their board examinations in the morning. The farmers did not wish to disturb them. “Our children write exams too, you know,” some female farmers told me. “We didn’t want to cause roadblocks and traffic jams.” They reached the protest ground hours before the kids set out for their schools.
Mumbai responded to the marching farmers with heartening warmth. Middle-class employees and workers — many themselves poor — offered packets of food and water. These acts of sympathy and solidarity stood out in sharp relief against the callousness of India’s governments and elites to the deepening rural distress. Taken by surprise, India’s corporate-controlled television networks and newspapers, which mostly ignore the poor, scrambled to respond to the dignified protesters.
Policy-driven agrarian distress is very real. India’s last national census — conducted every decade — in 2011 recorded nearly 15 million fewer farmers than there were in 1991; that’s a dropout rate of about 2,040 every 24 hours. Many of those fell from being farmers to being landless agricultural laborers, into the ranks of the agrarian underclass.
Cultivation costs have risen manifold since the mid-1990s, but the farmers’ incomes have stagnated or declined. Seed, fertilizer and pesticides are firmly in the hands of corporations. Agricultural credit from public-sector banks increased significantly in the past two decades — benefiting agribusiness, not farmers.
In the western Indian state of Maharashtra, where the farmers marched last month, India’s National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) allocated over 50 percent of its projected credit flow in 2017 to Mumbai and its suburbs. The two most devastated farming regions of the state, Vidarbha and Marathwada, got less than 16 percent.
Public-sector banks have turned away from small and marginal farmers since the late 1990s, forcing them to borrow from lenders who charge upward of 60 percent annual interest. For loans that the banks still gave small farmers, the terms grew adverse. Peasant indebtedness soared.
A waiver of their bank debt was among the key demands of the marchers in Mumbai. It would cost the state $5.23 billion — about $758 each for 6.9 million farmers. Another key demand was from farmers from the indigenous tribal communities who have for generations cultivated forest lands that are not officially vested in their names. They seek the implementation of India’s Forest Rights Act of 2006, which could confer them title deeds to those lands.
And the marchers, like all farmers across India, demanded minimum support prices for their produce at levels that governments have long promised. Prices received by farmers have seen repeated collapses. Dependence on the monsoon has been joined by an even sharper vulnerability to a rigged market. A severe water crisis, often driven more by unequal access than by poor rainfall, has further damaged agriculture.
The census in 2011 showed that for the first time since Indian independence in 1947, urban India added more people to its population than rural India did. Millions have left their villages for other villages, small towns and cities in search of jobs that are not there. As many male farmers moved out of their villages, the burdens of female farmers rose in ways numbers cannot capture. Between 1995 and 2015, the National Crime Records Bureau logged over 300,000 farmer suicides.
Successive governments have connived at and hastened the corporate hijacking of Indian agriculture, privileging the profits of a few over countless livelihoods. Millions of poor rural Indians whose transactions are almost entirely in cash were badly hurt after Prime Minister Narendra Modi in November 2016 banned two bills that account for a vast majority of all currency in circulation and decided to introduce new bills. The expansion of existing bans on cow slaughter wrecked the livelihoods of millions of farmers who bought and sold cattle.
Rural India’s deepening distress unfolds against the canvas of policy-driven inequality over the past two decades. The roughly five-member Indian farm household, according to the National Sample Survey Organization, a federal data collection agency, had an average monthly income of $99 in 2013.
The number of Indian billionaires on the Forbes annual list rose from 55 in 2011 to 121 in 2018. The collective net worth of our 121 billionaires was estimated by the magazine to be $440.1 billion, equal to roughly 22 percent of India’s gross domestic product. We now rank fourth in the world on the Forbes billionaires list and 131st on the United Nations Human Development Index.
The net worth of India’s richest man, Mukesh Ambani, rose to $40.1 billion on the 2018 Forbes billionaires list from $23.2 billion in 2017. To cumulatively make the amount Mr. Ambani added to his income in a year, 18.7 million rural Indians working under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, the country’s flagship employment program, would have to work for 12 months without a day off.
Indian elites and rulers largely ignore rural distress except in election years and when it causes them embarrassment in the West, where they desperately seek acknowledgment and applause. But there are solutions they could turn to.
The National Commission on Farmers, headed by M. S. Swaminathan, India’s most distinguished agricultural scientist, submitted detailed reports to the Parliament over a decade ago. But the Indian lawmakers are yet to have a day’s serious debate on Dr. Swaminathan’s reports and recommendations. Indian lawmakers need to devote a few weeks to a special session of Parliament on the agrarian crisis and the related issues, and discuss those reports.
A vigorous and conscientious press could remind them, but the failure of India’s corporatized media to report from rural areas makes things worse. No major television network or newspaper has a dedicated reporter who travels across the countryside speaking to ordinary Indians. Agriculture correspondents cover ministries in the cities, not farmers in the field. One national news agency sent its crime reporter to cover the farmers’ march in Mumbai.
Had this event been a tsunami, a flood killing thousands, you would have seen more media people than relief workers, with tales tugging at the tear ducts. How agonized we are over how people die. How untroubled we are by how they live.
P. Sainath, the founder and editor of the online People’s Archive of Rural India, is the author of “Everybody Loves a Good Drought.”
Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.
Advertisement



Collapse
SEE MY OPTIONS
On Sunday night at the Academy of Country Music Awards, country star Carrie Underwood will appear on television. Normally, this would not be a huge deal, as Underwood has consistently been in the spotlight since she won “American Idol” in 2005.
However, this time Underwood is poised to steal the show — because in January she revealed that she “might look a bit different” after a “gruesome” injury she suffered last fall. This is the first time she will be featured in public since the accident.
Ever since that January announcement, Underwood’s face has become a source of intense fascination, with myriad news articles every time she posts an Instagram photo. So if you’re curious why this has garnered so much attention, here’s a complete guide and timeline to the Carrie Underwood mystery of 2018.
[ACM Awards ‘contemplated’ moving from Las Vegas after the shooting, but here’s why the show stayed]
Saturday, Nov. 11, 2017: Underwood’s publicist releases a statement saying the star took a “hard fall” on the stairs outside her Nashville home on Friday night: “While there were no life-threatening injuries, she was taken to the hospital to be treated. She sustained multiple injuries including a broken wrist and some cuts and abrasions from the fall.” The Tennessean reported Underwood was released from the hospital, and canceled her appearance at a benefit concert at the Bridgestone Arena the following night.
Sunday, Nov. 12: Underwood sends her first tweet since the accident. “Thanks so much for all the well wishes everybody…I’ll be alright…might just take some time…glad I’ve got the best hubby in the world to take care of me,” she wrote, referring to her husband of more than seven years, hockey player Mike Fisher.
Wednesday, Nov. 15: Underwood confirms she had surgery on her wrist, tweeting, “I just wanted let everyone know that I’m doing great. Had surgery on my wrist yesterday & all went well…even though I’ll be setting off airport metal detectors from now on…I’m so thankful for the doctors, nurses, family & friends who’ve been taking such great care of me.” Fisher posts a statement on Instagram thanking fans for their support.
Sunday, Nov. 20: Underwood wins favorite female country artist at the American Music Awards, and writes an Instagram message saying she can’t attend but is honored to receive the prize.
Tuesday, Dec. 12: Adrienne Gang, one of the stars of Bravo’s reality show “Below Deck,” posts a picture of meeting Underwood after working out at an undisclosed location. This will become important later.
Just worked out next to @carrieunderwood NBD... she is adorable and so gracious... LOVE HER! #BelowDeck pic.twitter.com/scDPGudEe3
Wednesday, Dec. 27: After weeks under the radar, Underwood promotes a scarf from her clothing line, CALIA by Carrie. This image will also become significant.
When in 5 degree weather, wrap your @caliabycarrie scarf around your neck and face...you keep warm AND look like an awesome winter snow ninja! #WinWin #StayThePath #LetItSnow #BabyItsColdOutside ❄️ ⛄️
A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Dec 27, 2017 at 12:30pm PST
Monday, Jan. 1, 2018: Underwood sends a letter to her fan club that reveals some upsetting news: Her injuries from the fall were actually much more serious than initially reported. “There is also another part of the story that I haven’t been ready to talk about, since I have still been living it and there has been much uncertainty as to how things will end up,” she writes in a post that quickly made its way around the Internet. “It’s crazy how a freak random accident can change your life.”
Underwood explains that along with a broken wrist, she injured her face. “I’ll spare you the gruesome details, but when I came out of surgery the night of my fall, the doctor told Mike that he had put between 40-50 stitches in,” she writes. “Now here we are 7 weeks later and, even though I’ve had the best people helping me, I’m still healing and not looking quite the same.”
“When I am ready to get in front of a camera, I want you all to understand why I might look a bit different,” she continues. “I’m hoping that, by then, the differences are minimal, but, again, I just don’t know how it’s all going to end up.”
Underwood adds she’s undergoing physical therapy on her wrist and says, “I am grateful that it wasn’t much, much worse.”
The Internet, to put it mildly, loses its mind. While there’s always a natural curiosity around celebrity accidents, this one hits a nerve, especially given the new details of 40-50 stitches. Suddenly, the above scarf photo covering her face makes sense. But then, others wonder, what about the photo with the “Below Deck” star? She doesn’t look that different, right? Questions consume social media users for quite some time.
Saturday, Jan. 6: During an NFL playoff game, NBC airs a preview of a new Underwood song called “The Champion” featuring Ludacris. It’s Underwood’s first new music since her “Storyteller” album in 2015, and immediately goes to No. 1 on iTunes when it’s released the following week. Could this mean Underwood will be seen in public soon? Nope, although the song also airs before the Super Bowl.
Saturday, Feb. 10: Underwood publishes the first picture of herself since the fall, with her adorable toddler son, Isaiah. This will start a new tradition of Underwood posting partial pictures of her face, and people of the Internet zooming in to see if they can tell what happened.
My boys make work outs fun (and a bit less productive, but that’s ok)! #StayThePath @caliabycarrie 📸: @erinoprea
A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Feb 10, 2018 at 9:56am PST
Friday, Feb. 23: Underwood posts a new picture that blocks most of her face, and as usual, it sparks different reactions: some supportive (“Stitches or no stitches, you’re still the beautiful girl we’ve always known”); some angry (“Just show your face already and stop playing these stupid games. It is getting really old”); and some angry that others are angry (“She does not owe you anything … she was hurt and [it] is her and her families business.”).
Together, we’re in it to end it! Help us shine a light on modern day slavery. @enditmovement #enditmovement
A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Feb 23, 2018 at 11:05am PST
Wednesday, April 4: Underwood posts another picture, this time of her in the studio, hinting there will be new music soon. The headlines pour in that she has finally revealed “half” of her face.
A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Apr 4, 2018 at 8:01am PDT
Friday, April 6: Another cryptic photo (this time from far away) with no explanation.
Missed these guys. #bandrehearsals
A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Apr 6, 2018 at 8:04am PDT
Sunday, April 8: Underwood makes it official: She’ll drop a new single on Wednesday. So she must be performing it at the Academy of Country Music Awards on April 15? Since that’s one of the genre’s biggest events and she’s up for two awards?
Monday, April 9: Indeed! The ACM Awards announces Underwood will perform on Sunday.
Tuesday, April 10: Underwood reveals the single is titled “Cry Pretty,” which she wrote with hit Nashville songwriters Liz Rose, Lori McKenna and Hillary Lindsey. She also pens another letter to fans, saying, “First off, physically, I’m doing pretty darn good these days!”
“My wrist is almost back to normal, about 90% there…and the docs say that last 10% will come in time. And my face has been healing pretty nicely as well,” Underwood writes. “I definitely feel more like myself than I have in a while.”
Good morning! Just a couple of updates to share with you…😉 smarturl.it/o9yuge
A post shared by Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) on Apr 10, 2018 at 6:34am PDT
Wednesday, April 11: Underwood releases “Cry Pretty,” which includes lyrics such as, “I apologize if you don’t like what you see, but sometimes my emotions get the best of me/And falling apart is as human as it gets, you can’t hide it, you can’t fight what the truth is.”
As NPR writes, ” ‘Cry Pretty’ sends a message ahead of that return: though her carefully maintained beauty is certainly a selling point, Underwood can only be as pretty as circumstances (and, perhaps, a top medical team) allow. And besides, it’s the voice that matters, not the look.”
That’s all so far — until Sunday, when Underwood will finally make a public appearance. And, thanks to the speculation, it’s a guarantee she will have all the attention.
(This post has been updated.)
Read more:
Carrie Underwood, Maren Morris and Kelsea Ballerini have a message: Don’t pit us against each other
Carrie Underwood is a superstar. So why does she still fly under the radar?
Brad Paisley, Carrie Underwood make fun of President Trump in CMA Awards monologue



Set edition preference:
Set edition preference:
Set edition preference:
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger. Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
