Sign in
Register
Sign Out

Explore our gallery of inspiring rooms and styles
Get the look of wood with moisture-resistant porcelain & ceramic tile
Add color and style to your patio or deck with durable, easy-to-clean outdoor rugs
The Home Depot can help you select the perfect flooring for your home. Use our inspirational tools and be sure to review this flooring page where you'll find floors that fit your decor and lifestyle. Next, make sure you buy the right flooring by reviewing flooring buying guides and videos before you shop. You can also find carpet, tile calculators and measuring tips, while the entire look and feel of a room can also be updated when you choose from The Home Depot's wide selection of complimentary blinds, shades, and flooring. Finally, learn how to get your flooring installed by The Home Depot's experts, or learn do-it-yourself flooring installation techniques at in-store workshops.
More saving. More doing.®
Need Help? Please call us at: 1-800-HOME-DEPOT (1-800-466-3337)
Please enter in your email address in the following format: you@domain.com
Enter Email Address GO
© 2000-2018 Home Depot Product Authority, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Use of this site is subject to certain Terms Of Use.
Local store prices may vary from those displayed. Products shown as available are normally stocked but inventory levels cannot be guaranteed
For screen reader problems with this website, please call 1-800-430-3376 or text 38698 (standard carrier rates apply to texts)
FINAL DAYS: SHOP ALL SPRING BLACK FRIDAY + FREE PARCEL SHIPPING WITH MYLOWE'S. SHOP NOW>
Prices, promotions, styles, and availability may vary. Our local stores do not honor online pricing. Prices and availability of products and services are subject to change without notice. Errors will be corrected where discovered, and Lowe's reserves the right to revoke any stated offer and to correct any errors, inaccuracies or omissions including after an order has been submitted.
Free Deluxe Installation* includes: Basic installation, carpet removal and haul away, furniture moves, installation on stairs and delivery of carpet and pad.
*Requires (i) nonrefundable site assessment fee, which is credited to final project price if project is purchased through Lowe’s, (ii) using existing tack strips. Install by independent contractor. Limited to single-family residences. Disposal, moving oversized furniture and customization on stairs may require additional fee. Installer’s recommendation for product will include waste and will exceed actual room square footage. Not valid on glue-down carpet or prior purchases. Offer valid in select stores. Subject to installer availability. See flooring associate for details and Lowes.com/licensing for licensure.
Lowes.com Purchases: 10% Off Quick-Step or Pergo® laminate flooring discount is available for Lowes.com purchases by using the promo code LAMINATE10 at checkout. This offer can’t be combined with in-store installation offer. If making Quick-Step or Pergo® purchase at any store, customer must ask cashier to apply 10% off barcode (coupon) to receive discount. Install offer is not available online.
In-Store Purchases: Can’t combine 10% off offer with 89¢ per square foot basic installation offer. Must ask cashier to apply choice discount. Install offer: (i) is in-store offer only; (ii) requires minimum purchase of 250-sq ft and Lowe’s purchase of eligible flooring along with moisture barrier and underlayment if required for installation (Pergo® Gold™ underlayment required for Pergo® Premier and Pergo® TimberCraft™ purchases); and (iii) requires non-refundable site assessment fee (price varies by market) prior to project purchase, which is credited to final project price if project is purchased through Lowe’s. More charges may apply for install (e.g., delivery; removal and haul away of existing flooring; stairs; moulding; non-straight lay patterns; moving furniture, appliances, sinks or toilets; subfloor preparation; or structural deficiencies; etc.). Install fees will be, and additional charges may be, based on total flooring recommended by the installer (based on installer’s assessment of the unique characteristics of your project). Installer’s recommendation will include waste and will exceed actual room square footage. Other than Lowe’s Consumer Credit Card 5% OFF Every Day or Special Financing, offers can’t be used in conjunction with any other coupon, promotional offer or discount including, but not limited to, military discount, employee discount, price match guarantee, volume discount programs and any other special pricing programs. Not valid on previous sales and may not be available in all areas. Limited to single-family residences. Minimum labor charges may apply. See flooring associate for details and Lowes.com/licensenumbers for additional information on installation.

Whether you're looking for laminate flooring or vinyl flooring, hardwood, tile or carpet, Lowe's has everything you need to create the perfect look for your home. Find bamboo flooring or a comfortable cork flooring for your living space. At Lowe’s, you’ll find great savings on linoleum floor, wood flooring, laminate wood flooring, engineered wood flooring, rubber flooring and vinyl plank flooring. We carry all the top brands, such as Pergo, Armstrong flooring, allen + roth® and more. Looking for tile flooring? Shop our selection of Emser Tile, floor tile and even tile that looks like wood. If you’re looking for carpet that best fits your lifestyle, Lowe’s carries a wide selection of STAINMASTER® carpet and Shaw flooring. You can choose from an array of different carpet styles including Mohawk Carpet and Shaw Carpet. You can even find options for outdoor carpet. From a wide selection of area rugs and carpet runners to accessories like wall base and underfloor heating, you'll find customizable solutions to all your flooring needs at Lowe's.

Be the first to know: Sign up for exclusive offers, tips and more.
Enter your email and ZIP to receive Exclusive Offers in your inbox.
Lowe's Companies, Inc. 1000 Lowe's Blvd. Mooresville, NC 28117. View our Privacy and Security Statement. © 2016 Lowe's. Lowe's, and Gable Mansard Design are registered trademarks of LF, LLC.
Learn more and download our FREE apps.
Call 1-800-445-6937
Call 1-877-GO-LOWES
Click here to check Order Status.
© 2018 Lowe's. All rights reserved. Lowe's and the gable design are registered trademarks of LF, LLC.
With their waterproof construction and leading hardwood designs, vinyl plank, wood-look tile and engineered vinyl plank (EVP) are ideal flooring options for any room - even bathrooms, kitchens and mudrooms. When it's waterproof, it's worry-proof!
With their waterproof construction and leading hardwood designs, vinyl plank, wood-look tile and engineered vinyl plank (EVP) are ideal flooring options for any room - even bathrooms, kitchens and mudrooms. When it's waterproof, it's worry-proof!
With their waterproof construction and leading hardwood designs, vinyl plank, wood-look tile and engineered vinyl plank (EVP) are ideal flooring options for any room. When it's waterproof, it's worry-proof!
The Brands You Know. The Styles You Want. The Quality You Can Trust.
Wood Laminate Flooring
Get the wood look for less with wood Laminate flooring. Laminate is scratch-resistant, durable, less likely to fade in sunlight, and resists most stains. Manufactured in the U.S.A, Laminate includes wide planks, hand scraped textures, traditional oak or Brazilian cherry finishes, grey wood options, and many more. Wood Laminate Flooring
Wood Laminate Flooring
Get the wood look for less with wood Laminate flooring. Laminate is scratch-resistant, durable, less likely to fade in sunlight, and resists most stains. Manufactured in the U.S.A, Laminate includes wide planks, hand scraped textures, traditional oak or Brazilian cherry finishes, grey wood options, and many more. Wood Laminate Flooring
Solid Hardwood Flooring
Made from a single piece of wood, Solid Hardwood flooring is the most sought-after flooring. Solid Hardwood elevates your home's value and can last for many years when cared for properly. Choose from a variety of stains, plank sizes, species, and finishes. Solid Hardwood Flooring
Solid Hardwood Flooring
Made from a single piece of wood, Solid Hardwood flooring is the most sought-after flooring. Solid Hardwood elevates your home's value and can last for many years when cared for properly. Choose from a variety of stains, plank sizes, species, and finishes. Solid Hardwood Flooring
Engineered Hardwood Flooring
Engineered Hardwood flooring is real wood made to be installed in rooms where solid wood cannot. Stronger than Solid wood, Engineered Hardwood is less likely to expand or shrink from humidity changes. Available in a variety of stains, plank sizes, species, and finishes. Engineered Hardwood Flooring
Engineered Hardwood Flooring
Engineered Hardwood flooring is real wood made to be installed in rooms where solid wood cannot. Stronger than Solid wood, Engineered Hardwood is less likely to expand or shrink from humidity changes. Available in a variety of stains, plank sizes, species, and finishes. Engineered Hardwood Flooring
Vinyl Plank Flooring
Get the wood look on a budget with Vinyl Plank flooring. Combine the realistic wood grain patterns, coloring, and textures with durable stain, scratch, slip, water, and mildew resistance. Vinyl Plank flooring is built to stand up to the busiest of households. Vinyl Plank Flooring
Vinyl Plank Flooring
Get the wood look on a budget with Vinyl Plank flooring. Combine the realistic wood grain patterns, coloring, and textures with durable stain, scratch, slip, water, and mildew resistance. Vinyl Plank flooring is built to stand up to the busiest of households. Vinyl Plank Flooring
Vinyl Tile Flooring
Vinyl Tile gives you the realistic look of Tile for a fraction of the cost. Made to withstand wear and tear, Vinyl Tile is engineered to last decades. Plus, Vinyl Tile is water and mildew resistant, slip resistant, stain resistant, and scratch resistant. Vinyl Tile Flooring
Vinyl Tile Flooring
Vinyl Tile gives you the realistic look of Tile for a fraction of the cost. Made to withstand wear and tear, Vinyl Tile is engineered to last decades. Plus, Vinyl Tile is water and mildew resistant, slip resistant, stain resistant, and scratch resistant. Vinyl Tile Flooring
Sheet Vinyl Flooring
Now more stylish than ever, Sheet Vinyl Flooring gives you a real stone or wood look with resistance to stains, scratches, moisture, and mildew. Practical and budget-friendly, Sheet Vinyl flooring is structurally sound and remarkably easy to clean. Sheet Vinyl Flooring
Sheet Vinyl Flooring
Now more stylish than ever, Sheet Vinyl Flooring gives you a real stone or wood look with resistance to stains, scratches, moisture, and mildew. Practical and budget-friendly, Sheet Vinyl flooring is structurally sound and remarkably easy to clean. Sheet Vinyl Flooring
Ceramic Tile Flooring
Ceramic Tile floors are stylish, durable, and long lasting. From natural stone to wood-looks, Empire offers a variety of sizes, colors, and textures of Tile flooring. Plus, water, scratch, and stain resistance make Tile a great choice for high-traffic rooms. Ceramic Tile Flooring
Ceramic Tile Flooring
Ceramic Tile floors are stylish, durable, and long lasting. From natural stone to wood-looks, Empire offers a variety of sizes, colors, and textures of Tile flooring. Plus, water, scratch, and stain resistance make Tile a great choice for high-traffic rooms. Ceramic Tile Flooring
Porcelain Tile Flooring
Porcelain tile flooring is as durable and long lasting as it is beautiful. With both wood-look and stone-look tile in a variety of finishes, porcelain tile is a great way to to elevate your home's decor - no matter what room. Porcelain Tile Flooring
Porcelain Tile Flooring
Porcelain tile flooring is as durable and long lasting as it is beautiful. With both wood-look and stone-look tile in a variety of finishes, porcelain tile is a great way to to elevate your home's decor - no matter what room. Porcelain Tile Flooring
Berber carpet has a low profile loop.
Berber Carpet’s look is unmistakable: a low profile, thick loops of yarn, flecks of color, and a hearty feel. People love Berber for its casual style and comfort. Plus, it is designed to work well in higher traffic rooms. Berber Carpets
Berber carpet has a low profile loop.
Berber Carpet’s look is unmistakable: a low profile, thick loops of yarn, flecks of color, and a hearty feel. People love Berber for its casual style and comfort. Plus, it is designed to work well in higher traffic rooms. Berber Carpets
Frieze carpet has Tightly-Twisted Fibers
Frieze Carpet is distinguished by its twisted fibers and “shaggy” look. Its texture offers the added benefit of helping conceal dirt. Frieze Carpet can be uniformly colored, contain flecks of color, or have a barber-pole look with different colors of yarn twisted together. Frieze Carpets
Frieze carpet has Tightly-Twisted Fibers
Frieze Carpet is distinguished by its twisted fibers and “shaggy” look. Its texture offers the added benefit of helping conceal dirt. Frieze Carpet can be uniformly colored, contain flecks of color, or have a barber-pole look with different colors of yarn twisted together. Frieze Carpets
Carpet with a Smooth Level Surface
Plush Carpet (or Texture Carpet) is one of the most popular Carpet styles because of its traditional look. It has a smoother, level surface that can show subtle tones of color and highlights. With its universal style, Plush Carpet is an ideal choice for almost any room. Plush Carpets
Carpet with a Smooth Level Surface
Plush Carpet (or Texture Carpet) is one of the most popular Carpet styles because of its traditional look. It has a smoother, level surface that can show subtle tones of color and highlights. With its universal style, Plush Carpet is an ideal choice for almost any room. Plush Carpets
Carpet with a Cut and Loop Combo
Patterned Carpet is made from a combination of cut and looped fibers to create linear, squared, dotted, and even geometric designs. The distinct patterns accent neutral furniture and décor in ways that traditional looks cannot, giving it a designer feel. Pattern Carpets
Carpet with a Cut and Loop Combo
Patterned Carpet is made from a combination of cut and looped fibers to create linear, squared, dotted, and even geometric designs. The distinct patterns accent neutral furniture and décor in ways that traditional looks cannot, giving it a designer feel. Pattern Carpets
Loop and Artificial Turf Carpet
Indoor / Outdoor Carpet is designed for interior rooms or covered exterior spaces such as patios, porches, and sunrooms. Indoor / Outdoor Carpet is ideal in settings with fluctuating temperatures and may resist moisture, color fading from sunlight exposure, and mildew. Indoor / Outdoor Carpet
Loop and Artificial Turf Carpet
Indoor / Outdoor Carpet is designed for interior rooms or covered exterior spaces such as patios, porches, and sunrooms. Indoor / Outdoor Carpet is ideal in settings with fluctuating temperatures and may resist moisture, color fading from sunlight exposure, and mildew. Indoor / Outdoor Carpet
Your guide to inspiring home improvement ideas, tips, trends, and more.
Get product news, promotions, décor trends, and more!

Change Location
Current Zip: 1220
Furniture
Outdoor
Bed & Bath
Décor & Pillows
Rugs
Lighting & Ceiling Fans
Home Improvement
Appliances
Kitchen & Tabletop
Baby & Kids
Storage & Organization
Window Treatments
Mattresses
Pet
Holiday Décor
Living Room
Bedroom
Bathroom
Kitchen
Dining Room
Kids Bedroom
Foyer
Home Office
Outdoor
Explore All
Rustic
Coastal
Modern & Contemporary
Cottage/Country
Glam
Industrial
Eclectic
Traditional
Floor Tile & Wall Tile
Hardwood Flooring
Laminate Flooring
Vinyl Flooring
Bamboo Flooring
Cork Flooring
Flooring Sale
Carpet Tiles
Outdoor Deck Tiles & Planks
Garage Floors & Mats
Flooring Installation Accessories
Pavers & Cobblestone
Kitchen Flooring & Tile
Loading today’s best sellers…
Flooring
Whatever your flooring needs we'll have just what you need! We have anything that you'll require to make that perfect base to your home or office. With a variety of styles like carpet, laminate flooring, hardwood flooring, bamboo flooring, vinyl flooring and flooring accessories, you'll be floored by our low prices. Whether you're looking to put tile floors in your kitchen or bathroom, solid hardwood floors in the living room, vinyl for entryways or carpet tiles in the basement, Wayfair has every type of flooring, for every room, and for every home.



SHOP NOW
The most recommended store!
Read Our Reviews

Get Coupon
From traditional to hand scraped and exotics, we've got you covered.
Shop
Hundreds of colors and styles on sale now.
Shop
An excellent resilient, versatile and affordable flooring options for your home.
Shop
Special pricing on wood and tile looks.
Shop
Save up to 50% storewide on our Innovia line of carpet and Floorcraft hard surface flooring.
Shop
Timeless elegance at prices you'll love.
Shop
The Most Recommended Store
Amber in Clive, IA
Donita in Princeton, IL
Gary in Lake Forest, CA
Browse All Reviews
Explore our design resources and product video tips
Explore Design Center Design Magazine
We have thousands of styles and colors to choose from
We’re proud to support this charity bringing affordable pet ownership to service and veteran members of the military to the benefit of both pet and person.
Find Out More
Browse our catalog to discover fresh new flooring options, get expert design advice, and find the floor that perfectly fits your space and your style.
Check It Out
Try before you buy! Download our free app for your tablet to see what new floor styles will look like in your room.
Learn More
Visit your local Flooring America store today

Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | © FA Management Enterprises, Inc.
Category
Price
Shape
Type
Style
Brand
Color
Indoor/Outdoor
Size
About Us
Membership
Vendors & Suppliers
Customer Service
Locations & Services
© 1998 — 2016 Costco Wholesale Corporation. All rights reserved.
Javascript is currently disabled in your browser. Please be aware that the site may not function as intended.
Vous vous trouvez actuellement sur le site United States (English) d'Armstrong Flooring. Si vous désirez connaître la disponibilité des produits et obtenir des renseignements en fonction de votre emplacement, il serait préférable que vous consultiez notre site Canada.
Aller sur Armstrong Flooring Canada
No thanks, I'd prefer to continue browsing on United States (English).
You are currently on the United States (English) Armstrong Flooring site. For product availability and information for your current location, you may prefer browsing our Canada site.
Go to Armstrong Flooring Canada
No thanks, I'd prefer to continue browsing on United States (English).
You are currently on the United States (English) Armstrong Flooring site. For product availability and information for your current location, you may prefer browsing our Australia site.
Go to Armstrong Flooring Australia
No thanks, I'd prefer to continue browsing on United States (English).
Save up to $500 on select floors.See Details
Thank you for choosing to explore Audacity water resistant laminate! You are now leaving the Armstrong Flooring website and being redirected to a partner site AudacityFlooring.com.
Explore our flooring gallery for new ideas and inspiration. Includes actual customer photos.
Try our Floor Finder tool to find the right fit for your room.
Try on different floors, paint colors and stains in your own room or choose one of ours!
Tag your Instagram photos with #armstrongflooring and we may feature them here! (With your permission, of course.)
Project update from previously featured influencer @Sfgirlbybay, who used our Vivero Luxury Flooring with Diamond 10® Technology in revamping her kitchen. Check out more on her blog! . . #armstrongflooring #thefloorisyours #ihavethisthingwithfloors #homeinterior #flooring #floors #design #homedecor #homeimprovement #interiordesign #floorinspiration #homeinspiration #influencer #homestyle #kitchen
A post shared by Armstrong Flooring (@armstrongflooring) on Mar 15, 2018 at 12:32pm PDT
Check out the durable, comfortable alternative to stone and ceramic flooring, Alterna® Plank (link in bio). . . #armstrongflooring #thefloorisyours #linkinbio #ihavethisthingwithfloors #homeinterior #flooring #floors #design #homedecor #homeimprovement #interiordesign
A post shared by Armstrong Flooring (@armstrongflooring) on Mar 13, 2018 at 9:34am PDT
#FloorDecor: Whether you desire to make bold or subtle statements with your interior design, our new Appalachian Ridge solid hardwood with Diamond 10® Technology is the perfect starting point. Learn more about this product via the link in our bio. . . #armstrongflooring #inspiringgreatspaces #interiordesign #homedecor #roominspiration #homestyle #thefloorisyours #woodfloors #floors #linkinbio
A post shared by Armstrong Flooring (@armstrongflooring) on Mar 9, 2018 at 10:04am PST
Check out how #Dallas-based blogger and mother of four Janene Crossley (@janenecrossley) revamped her home using our TimberBrushed Hardwood in Limed Beach Getaway. #armstrongflooring #thefloorisyours . . #Repost @janenecrossley with @get_repost ・・・ Happy 🍟day! I’ve got before & after transformation pictures on the blog of our home (link to blog post in my profile✨)! I’m talking all about how to choose the right flooring for your style and our fantastic experience with @armstrongflooring and @nfmpics for the installation. Have you had a fantastic and/or terrible (spoiler: not all tile installers can work with tile😏) floor installation experience!? I’m sharing all of mine on the blog 😅🤯 #wood #floors #ontheblog #spon
A post shared by Armstrong Flooring (@armstrongflooring) on Feb 10, 2018 at 7:53am PST
#FlooringFeature: A Fashionista Ramps Up Her Ranch House Blogger & Healthcare IT Consultant Sandy Chang (@sandyalamode) gave her ranch house a chic facelift with unique new floors. Read the link in our bio to learn how the Salt Lake City home found flooring that blends functionality with modern trends (more via the link in bio). . . #armstrongflooring #inspiringgreatspaces #interiordesign #homedecor #roominspiration #homestyle #thefloorisyours #ihavethisthingwithfloors #customertestimonial
A post shared by Armstrong Flooring (@armstrongflooring) on Feb 10, 2018 at 9:37am PST

Monday - Friday 9:00 AM - 4:30 PM EST
Sign up to receive ideas, tips and inspiration.
© 2018 AFI Licensing LLC, All Rights Reserved.
We respect your privacy. All email addresses you provide will be used just for sending this story.
New flooring can add charm and value to your home. The latest flooring features scratch-resistant technology that can delay wear and tear.
View our ratings and reviews and browse our buying guide to find the best flooring for your home.
We respect your privacy. All email addresses you provide will be used just for sending this story.
See our full list of flooring ratings.

Lumber Liquidators
Morning Star Ultra Elk Creek Bamboo 10041030

Armstrong
TimberBrushed Deep Etched Buffalo Creek Hickory EAHTB75L404

Pergo
Outlast+ Vintage Pewter Oak LF000848 (Home Depot)

Pergo
Max Heritage Hickory PUH25-13

Mohawk
Woodlands Vintage Charm MHKIV039392

Cali Bamboo
Fossilized Antique Java 7003001000

Allen + Roth
Handscraped Driftwood Oak D2669 (Lowe's)

Lumber Liquidators
Coreluxe XD Driftwood Hickory 10040085

Lumber Liquidators
Dream Home Boardwalk Oak 10040536

Style Selections (Lowe's)
Autumn Hickory ESSH541
© 2006 - 2018 Consumer Reports
