Netbook is a generic name given to a category of small, lightweight, legacy-free, and inexpensive laptop computers that were introduced in 2007. Netbooks compete in the same market segment as mobiles and Chromebooks (a variation on the portable network computer).
At their inception in late 2007[1] as smaller notebooks optimized for low weight and low cost[2]—netbooks omitted certain features (e.g., the optical drive), featured smaller screens and keyboards, and offered reduced computing power when compared to a full-sized laptop. Over the course of their evolution, netbooks have ranged in size from below 5" screen diagonal to 12". A typical weight is 1 kg (2.2 pounds). Often significantly less expensive than other laptops,[3] by mid-2009, netbooks began to be offered by some wireless data carriers to their users "free of charge", with an extended service contract purchase.[4]
In the short period since their appearance, netbooks grew in size and features, and converged with smaller, lighter laptops and subnotebooks. By August 2009, when comparing a Dell netbook to a Dell notebook, CNET called netbooks "nothing more than smaller, cheaper notebooks", noting, "the specs are so similar that the average shopper would likely be confused as to why one is better than the other", and "the only conclusion is that there really is no distinction between the devices".[5] In an attempt to prevent cannibalizing the more lucrative laptops in their lineup, manufacturers imposed several constraints on netbooks; however this would soon push netbooks into a niche where they had few distinctive advantages over traditional laptops or tablet computers (see below).[6]
By 2011, the increasing popularity of tablet computers (particularly the iPad)—a different form factor, but with improved computing capabilities and lower production cost—had led to a decline in netbook sales.[7] At the high end of the performance spectrum, ultrabooks, ultra-light portables with a traditional keyboard and display have been revolutionized by the 11.6-inch MacBook Air, which made fewer performance sacrifices albeit at considerably higher production cost.[8][9] Capitalizing on the success of the MacBook Air,[10] and in response to it, Intel promoted Ultrabook as a new high-mobility standard, which has been hailed by some analysts as succeeding where netbooks failed.[11][12][13] As a result of these two developments, netbooks of 2011 had kept price as their only strong point, losing in the design, ease-of-use and portability department to tablets (and tablets with removable keyboards) and to Ultrabook laptops in the features and performance field.[14]
Many major netbook producing companies stopped producing them by the end of 2012.[15] Many netbook products were replaced on the market by Chromebooks, a variation on the network computer concept in the form of a netbook. With the rise of Chromebooks in 2014, Microsoft began a new effort at creating viable netbooks, with Windows 8.1 with Bing. HP re-entered the non-Chromebook netbook market with the Stream 11 in 2014.[16]


The origins of the netbook can be traced to the highly popular Toshiba range of Libretto sub-notebooks. The 6" Libretto 20 dates back to early 1996 and weighed only 840g. Apple also had a line of PowerBook Duos that were ultra-portable Macintosh laptops in the mid 90s. More recently, Psion's now-discontinued netBook line, the OLPC XO-1 (initially called US$100 laptop) and the Palm Foleo were all small, portable, network-enabled computers.[17][18][19] The generic use of the term "netbook", however, began in 2007 when Asus unveiled the Asus Eee PC. Originally designed for emerging markets, the 23 cm × 17 cm (9.1 in × 6.7 in) device weighed about 0.9 kg (2 lb) and featured a 7 in (18 cm) display, a keyboard approximately 85% the size of a normal keyboard, a solid-state drive and a custom version of Linux with a simplified user interface geared towards netbook use.[18] Following the Eee PC, Everex launched its Linux-based CloudBook; Windows XP and Windows Vista models were also introduced and MSI released the Wind—others soon followed suit.
The OLPC project followed the same market goals laid down by the eMate 300 eight years earlier.[20][21] Known for its innovation in producing a durable, cost- and power-efficient netbook for developing countries, it is regarded as one of the major factors that led more top computer hardware manufacturers to begin creating low-cost netbooks for the consumer market.[22] When the first Asus Eee PC sold over 300,000 units in four months, companies such as Dell and Acer took note and began producing their own inexpensive netbooks. And while the OLPC XO-1 targets a different audience than do the other manufacturers' netbooks, it appears that OLPC is now facing competition. Developing countries now have a large choice of vendors, from which they can choose which low-cost netbook they prefer.[23]
By late 2008, netbooks had begun to take market share away from notebooks.[24] In contrast to earlier, largely failed attempts to establish mini computers as a new class of mainstream personal computing devices built around comparatively expensive platforms requiring proprietary software applications or imposing severe usability limitations, the recent success of netbooks can also be attributed to the fact that PC technology has now matured enough to allow truly cost optimized implementations with enough performance to suit the needs of a majority of PC users. This is illustrated by the fact that typical system performance of a netbook is on the level of a mainstream PC in 2001, at around one quarter of the cost. While this performance level suffices for most of the user needs, it caused an increased interest in resource-efficient applications such as Google's Chrome, and forced Microsoft to extend availability of Windows XP to secure market share. It is estimated that almost thirty times more netbooks were sold in 2008 (11.4 million, 70% of which were in Europe)[25] than in 2007 (400,000).[26] This trend is reinforced by the rise of web-based applications as well as mobile networking and, according to Wired Magazine, netbooks are evolving into "super-portable laptops for professionals".[27] The ongoing recession is also helping with the growing sales of netbooks.[28]
In Australia, the New South Wales Department of Education and Training, in partnership with Lenovo, provided Year 9 (high school) students in government high schools with Lenovo S10e netbooks in 2009, Lenovo Mini 10 netbooks in 2010, Lenovo Edge 11 netbooks in 2011 and a modified Lenovo X130e netbook in 2012, each preloaded with software including Microsoft Office and Adobe Systems' Creative Suite 4. These were provided under Prime Minister Kevin Rudd's Digital Education Revolution, or DER. The netbooks ran Windows 7 Enterprise. These netbooks were secured with Computrace Lojack for laptops that the police can use to track the device if it is lost or stolen. The NSW DET retains ownership of these netbooks until the student graduates from Year 12, when the student can keep it. The Government of Trinidad and Tobago—Prime Minister Kamla Persad Bisseser—is also providing HP laptops to form 1 Students (11-year-olds) with the same police trackable software as above.
Greece provided all 13-year-old students (middle school, or gymnasium, freshmen) and their teachers with netbooks in 2009[29] through the "Digital Classroom Initiative". Students were given one unique coupon each, with which they redeemed the netbook of their choice, up to a €450 price ceiling, in participating shops throughout the country. These netbooks came bundled with localised versions of either Windows XP (or higher) or open source (e.g. Linux) operating systems, wired and wireless networking functionality, antivirus protection, preactivated parental controls, and an educational software package.
Microsoft and Intel have tried to "cement" netbooks in the low end of the market to protect mainstream notebook PC sales, because they get lower margins on low-cost models. The companies have limited the specifications of netbooks, but despite this original equipment manufacturers have announced higher-end netbooks models as of March 2009.[30]
Ending in 2008 the report was that the typical netbook featured a 1.4 kg (3 lb) weight, a 9 in (23 cm) screen, wireless Internet connectivity, Linux or Windows XP, an Intel Atom processor, and a cost of less than $400 US.[31] A mid-2009 newspaper article[32] said that a typical netbook is 1.2 kg (2.6 lb), $300 US, and has a 10 in (25 cm) screen, 1 GB of random-access memory, a 160 GB hard disk drive, and a wireless transceiver for both home and a mobile network. Buyers drove the netbook market towards larger screens, which grew from 7 in (18 cm) in the original Asus Eee PC 700 to 12 in (30.5 cm) models in the summer of 2009.[33]
Having peaked at about 20% of the portable computer market, netbooks started to slightly lose market share (within the category) in early 2010, coinciding with the appearance and success of the iPad.[34] Technology commentator Ross Rubin argued two and a half years later in Engadget that "Netbooks never got any respect. While Steve Jobs rebuked the netbook at the iPad's introduction, the iPad owes a bit of debt to the little laptops. The netbook demonstrated the potential of an inexpensive, portable second computing device, with a screen size of about 10 inches, intended primarily for media consumption and light productivity."[35] Although some manufacturers directly blamed competition from the iPad, some analysts pointed out that larger, fully fledged laptops had entered the price range of netbooks at about the same time.[36]
The 11.6-inch MacBook Air, introduced in late 2010, compared favorably to many netbooks in terms of processing power but also ergonomics, at 2.3 pounds being lighter than some 10-inch netbooks, owing in part to the integration of the flash storage chips on the main logic board.[37] It was described as a superlative netbook (or at least as what a netbook should be) by several technology commentators,[38][39][40] even though Apple has never referred to it as such, sometimes describing it—in the words of Steve Jobs—as "the third kind of notebook."[39] The entry level model had a MSRP of $999,[39] costing significantly more than the average netbook, as much as three or four times more.[35]
In 2011 tablet sales overtook netbooks for the first time, and in 2012 netbook sales fell by 25 percent, year-on-year.[41] The sustained decline since 2010 had been most pronounced in the United States and in Western Europe, while Latin America was still showing some modest growth.[42] In December 2011, Dell announced that it was exiting the netbook market.[43] In May 2012, Toshiba announced it was doing the same, at least in the United States.[44] An August 2012 article by John C. Dvorak in PC Magazine claimed that the term "netbook" is "nearly gone from the lexicon already", having been superseded in the market place largely by the more powerful (and MacBook Air inspired) Ultrabook—described as "a netbook on steroids"—and to a lesser extent by tablets.[13] In September 2012 Asus, Acer and MSI announced that they will stop manufacturing 10-inch netbooks.[45] Simultaneously Asus announced they would stop developing all Eee PC products, instead focusing on their mixed tablet-netbook Transformer line.[45]
With the introduction of Chromebooks, major manufacturers produced the new laptops for the same segment of the market that netbooks serviced. Chromebooks, a variation on the network computer concept, in the form of a netbook, require internet connections for full functionality. Chromebooks became top selling laptops in 2014. The threat of Google Chrome OS based Chromebooks prompted Microsoft to revive and revamp netbooks with Windows 8.1 with Bing. HP re-entered the non-Chromebook netbook market with the Stream 11 in 2014.[16]
In 1996 Psion started applying for trademarks for a line of netBook products that was later released in 1999.[46] International trademarks were issued (including U.S. Trademark 75,215,401 and ) but the models failed to gain popularity[47] and are now discontinued (except for providing accessories, maintenance and support to existing users).[48] Similar marks were recently rejected by the USPTO citing a "likelihood of confusion" under section 2(d).[49][50][51]
Despite expert analysis that the mark is "probably generic",[52] Psion Teklogix issued cease and desist letters on 23 December 2008.[53][54][55] This was heavily criticised,[56][57][58] prompting the formation of the "Save the Netbooks" grassroots campaign which worked to reverse the Google AdWords ban, cancel the trademark and encourage continued generic use of the term.[47] While preparing a "Petition for Cancellation" of U.S. Trademark 75,215,401 they revealed[59] that Dell had submitted one day before[60] on the basis of abandonment, genericness and fraud.[61] They later revealed Psion's counter-suit against Intel, filed on 27 February 2009.[62]
It was also revealed around the same time that Intel had also sued Psion Teklogix (US & Canada) and Psion (UK) in the Federal Court on similar grounds.[63] In addition to seeking cancellation of the trademark, Intel sought an order enjoining Psion from asserting any trademark rights in the term "netbook", a declarative judgment regarding their use of the term, attorneys' fees, costs and disbursements and "such other and further relief as the Court deems just and proper".[64]
On June 2, 2009, Psion announced that the suit had been settled out of court. Psion's statement said that the company was withdrawing all of its trademark registrations for the term "Netbook" and that Psion agreed to "waive all its rights against third parties in respect of past, current or future use" of the term.[65]
Netbooks typically have less powerful hardware than larger laptop computers and do not include an optical disc drive that larger laptops often have. Some netbooks do not even have a conventional hard drive.[66] Such netbooks use solid-state storage devices instead, as these require less power, are faster, lighter, and generally more shock-resistant, but with much less storage capacity (such as 32, 64, or 128 GB compared to the 100 GB to 2 TB mechanical hard drives typical of many notebooks/laptop computers).
All netbooks on the market today support Wi-Fi wireless networking and many can be used on mobile telephone networks with data capability (for example, 3G). Mobile data plans are supplied under contract in the same way as mobile telephones.[67] Some also include ethernet and/or modem ports, for broadband or dial-up Internet access, respectively.
It remains to be seen whether Intel's new silvermont architecture, released in 2013, will revive sales as new chips will offer far greater power using the same wattage.
Most netbooks, such as those from Asus, BenQ, Dell, Toshiba, Acer use the Intel Atom notebook processor (typically the N270 1.6 GHz but also available is the N280 at 1.66 GHz, replaced by the N450 series with graphics and memory controller integrated on the chip in early 2010 and running at 1.66 GHz), but the x86-compatible VIA Technologies C7 processor is also powering netbooks from many different manufacturers like HP[68] and Samsung.[69] VIA has also designed the Nano, a new x86-64-compatible architecture targeting lower priced, mobile applications like netbooks. Currently, one netbook uses the Nano; the Samsung NC20. Some very low cost netbooks use a system-on-a-chip Vortex86 processor meant for embedded systems, just to be "Windows compatible", but with very low performance. In 2011, AMD launched Fusion netbook processors which are included in Asus Eee PC 1015T and many others.[70][71]
Although not officially sanctioned by AMD for this role, a 1.2 GHz Athlon 64 model L110 processor, dissipating 13 W, was used by at least one company—Gateway—to power an 11.6-inch portable (1366x768 screen resolution), described as a netbook by the press.[72] Launched in mid-2009 at $399 in the United States, the LT31 met with reviewers' approval for its performance, being generally recognized as faster than contemporary Atom-based products in the same price range, while having a considerably shorter battery life and still falling short of Intel's Core 2 ULV product line powering more expensive small-factor offerings.[73][74][75][76]
The 11.6 inch MacBook Air debuted in late 2010 with a 1.4 GHz Core 2 Duo processor (a 10 W part) and a 1366x768 display resolution for its entry level model priced at $999 (with 1.6 GHz available as upgrade), which put it "much closer to a fully modern laptop than the small-but-crippled netbooks".[77] One reviewer described it as the "Mercedes Benz of netbooks".[40]
The September 2011 PC Magazine buyer's guide for netbooks observed that other "oversized netbooks" with 11.6 inch screens had appeared on the market, including the HP Pavilion dm1z (MSRP $449) and Lenovo ThinkPad X100e (MSRP $550), both using the AMD Fusion E-350 processor (an 18 W part, although this includes the GPU), which was described as "faster than any given Atom processor".[78]
By definition netbooks accommodate processors with little processing power. For comparison a common dual-core Core 2 Duo T5600 at 1.83 GHz with 2 MB L2 cache used in low-end laptops has a PassMark score of about 1000 points. The following table shows benchmarks for most common netbook CPUs:[79]
ARM Holdings designs and licenses microprocessor technology with relatively low power requirements and low cost which would constitute an ideal basis for netbooks. In particular, the recent ARM Cortex-A9 MPCore series of processor cores have been touted by ARM as an alternative platform to x86 for netbooks.[87][88] In June 2009, Nvidia announced a dozen mobile Internet devices running ARM-based Tegra SoC's, some of which will be netbooks.[89]
Some ARM-based products were advertised as smartbooks, particularly by Qualcomm. Smartbooks promised to deliver features including always on, all-day battery life, 3G connectivity and GPS (all typically found in smartphones) in a laptop-style body with a screen size of 5 to 10 inches and a QWERTY keyboard. These systems do not run traditional x86 versions of Microsoft Windows, rather custom Linux operating systems (such as Google's Android or Chrome OS).[90][91] In the end, few such products were ever shipped to market under this branding, like the HP-Compaq Airlife,[92] the Toshiba AC100 (sold as Dynabook AZ in Japan)[93] and the Efika MX.[94] Some of the devices, like the AC100, have been hampered by being sold with a phone-oriented operating system like Android.[95] By the end of 2010, Qualcomm CEO Paul Jacobs admitted that tablet computers such as the iPad already occupied the niche of the smartbook, so the name was dropped.[92]
Some netbooks use MIPS architecture-compatible processors. These include the Skytone Alpha-400,[96] based on an Ingenic system on chip, and the EMTEC Gdium netbook, which uses the 64-bit Loongson processor capable of 400 million instructions per second.[97] While these systems are relatively inexpensive, the processing power of current MIPS implementations usually compares unfavorably with those of x86-implementations as found in current netbooks.[96]
As of November 2009[update], customised distributions of Linux are estimated to ship on 32% of netbooks worldwide (0.5% claimed Microsoft),[98] making it the second most popular operating system after Windows. As Linux systems normally install software from an Internet software repository, they do not need an optical drive to install software.
As of August 2010[update], major netbook manufacturers no longer install or support Linux in the United States. The reason for this change of stance is unclear, although it coincides with the availability of a 'netbook' version of Windows XP, and a later Windows 7 Starter and a strong marketing push for the adoption of this OS in the netbook market. However, companies targeting niche markets, such as System76 and ZaReason, continue to pre-install Linux on the devices they sell.
Netbooks have sparked the development of several Linux variants or completely new distributions, which are optimized for small screen use and the limited processing power of the Atom or ARM processors which typically power netbooks. Examples include Ubuntu Netbook Edition, EasyPeasy, Joli OS and MeeGo. Both Joli OS and MeeGo purport to be "social oriented" or social networking operating systems rather than traditional "office work production" operating systems.
Microsoft announced on April 8, 2008 that, despite the impending end of retail availability for the operating system that June, it would continue to license low-cost copies of Windows XP Home Edition to OEMs through October 2010 (one year after the release of Windows 7) for what it defined as "ultra low-cost personal computers"—a definition carrying restrictions on screen size and processing power.[99][100]
The move served primarily to counter the use of low-cost Linux distributions on netbooks and create a new market segment for Windows devices, whilst ensuring that the devices did not cannibalize the sales of higher-end PCs running Windows Vista.[101] As of January 2009, over 90% (96% claimed by Microsoft as of February 2009) of netbooks in the United States were estimated to ship with Windows XP.[102][103]
For Windows 7, Microsoft introduced a new stripped-down edition intended for netbooks known as "Starter", exclusively for OEMs. In comparison to Home Premium, Starter has reduced multimedia functionality, does not allow users to change their desktop wallpaper or theme, disables the "Aero Glass" theme, and does not have support for multiple monitors.[104][105]
For Windows 8, in a ploy to counter Chrome OS-based netbooks and low-end Android tablets, Microsoft began to offer no-cost Windows licenses to OEMs for devices with screens smaller than 9 inches in size. Additionally, Microsoft began to offer low-cost licenses for a variant of the operating system set up to use Microsoft's Bing search engine by default.[16][106][107][108]
Windows CE has also been used in netbook applications, due to its reduced feature set.[109]
Google's Android software platform, designed for mobile telephone handsets, has been demonstrated on an ASUS Eee PC and its version of the Linux operating system contains policies for mobile internet devices including the original Asus Eee PC 701.[110] ASUS has allocated engineers to develop an Android-based netbook.[111] Freescale have also announced plans for a low-cost ARM-based netbook design, running Android.[112] In May 2009 a contractor of Dell announced it is porting Adobe Flash Lite to Android for Dell netbooks.[113] Acer announced Android netbooks to be available in Q3/2009.[114]
In July 2009, a new project, Android-x86,[115] was created to provide an open source solution for Android on the x86 platform, especially for netbooks.
Google has since marketed a netbook-specific platform known as Chrome OS. Google has made efforts to provide access to the Android ecosystem within Chrome OS, including the 2016 introduction of Google Play Store and a compatibility layer for Android applications to the platform.[116]
In 2011, Google introduced Chrome OS, a Linux-based operating system designed particularly for netbook-like devices marketed as "Chromebooks". The platform is designed to leverage online services, cloud computing, and its namesake Chrome web browser as its shell—so much so that the operating system initially used a full screen web browser window as its interface, and contained limited offline functionality.[117][118] Later versions of Chrome OS introduced a traditional desktop interface[119] and a platform allowing "native" packaged software written in HTML, JavaScript, and CSS to be developed for the platform.[120]
MeeGo is an open source operating system project. It was first announced at the Mobile World Congress in February 2010 by Intel and Nokia in a joint press conference, with the stated aim being to merge the efforts of Intel's Moblin and Nokia's Maemo projects into one common project. It is programmed in C++ and uses the Linux Kernel. It was initially released on 26 May 2010. The latest stable release available is 1.2 released on 19 May 2011. As of 27 September 2011 development on MeeGo has ceased in favour of the newer project Tizen.
Netbooks have been demonstrated running other operating systems including FreeBSD, NetBSD, OpenBSD, and Darwin.[121]
The Cloud operating system attempts to capitalize on the minimalist aspect of netbooks. The user interface is limited to a browser application only.
Mac OS X has been demonstrated running on various netbooks as a result of the OSx86 project,[122] although this is in violation of the operating system's end-user license agreement.[123] Apple has complained to sites hosting information on how to install OS X onto non-Apple hardware (including Wired and YouTube) who have reacted and removed content in response.[124] One article nicknamed a netbook running OS X a "Hackintosh." The Macbook Air can be considered an expensive netbook.
A June 2009 NPD study found that 60% of netbook buyers never take their netbooks out of the house.[125]
Another NPD study indicated that by September 2009 netbooks accounted for 20% of all portable computer shipments.[126]
Special "children's" editions of netbooks have been released under Disney branding; their low cost (less at risk), lack of DVD player (less to break) and smaller keyboards (closer to children's hand sizes) are viewed as significant advantages for that target market. The principal objection to netbooks in this context is the lack of good video performance for streaming online video in current netbooks and a lack of speed with even simple games. Adults browsing for text content are less dependent on video content than small children who cannot read.
Netbooks are a growing trend in education for several reasons. The need to prepare children for 21st-century lifestyles, combined with hundreds of new educational tools that can be found online, and a growing emphasis on student centered learning are three of the biggest contributing factors to the rising use of netbook technology in schools.[citation needed] Dell was one of the first to mass-produce a ruggedised netbook for the education sector, by having a rubber outlay, touchscreen and network activity light to show the teacher the netbook is online.
Netbooks offer several distinct advantages in educational settings. First, their compact size and weight make for an easy fit in student work areas. Similarly, the small size make netbooks easier to transport than heavier, larger sized traditional laptops. In addition, prices ranging from $200–$600 mean the affordability of netbooks can be a relief to school budget makers. Despite the small size and price, netbooks are fully capable of accomplishing most school-related tasks, including word processing, presentations, access to the Internet, multimedia playback, and photo management.[127]
A smartbook was a concept of a mobile device that falls between smartphones and netbooks, delivering features typically found in smartphones (always on, all-day battery life, 3G connectivity, GPS)[90] in a slightly larger device with a full keyboard. Smartbooks will tend to be designed to work with online applications.[128] Smartbooks were likely to be sold initially through mobile network operators, as mobile phones are today, with a wireless data plan.[129] Smartbooks were discontinued due to popularity of tablets.
An Asus Eee PC 1005HA size comparison with a 15.4 inch laptop
ECS G10IL XP Netbook with a built-in GSM best (HSDPA) module (Europe use)
Asus Eee PC 900
Acer Aspire One
Zelybron Micro Nina
Lenovo IdeaPad S10
Samsung NC20
OLPC XO-1
Classmate PC
Asus EeeBook
Choose a category that best describes the issue that you are having with the search:Choose a category…I need to talk to customer service.I still haven't found what I'm looking for.How do I filter or sort my search ?Something is broken.A picture or description looks wrong.Could you add a feature ?Could you start carrying a product not listed here ?Choose a category…
Leave us some comments about your search; your comments can help make our site better for everyone.
There's a problem loading this menu right now.
Learn more about Amazon Prime.
Newegg.com - A great place to buy computers, computer parts, electronics, software, accessories, and DVDs online. With great prices, fast shipping, and top-rated customer service - Newegg shopping upgraded ™
If you are reading this message, Please click this link to reload this page.(Do not use your browser's "Refresh" button). Please email us if you're running the latest version of your browser and you still see this message.
Newegg.com - Computer Parts, Laptops, Electronics, HDTVs, Digital Cameras and More!
Free 30-Day Trial when you sign up for a 12-month membership. Sign up and start enjoying:
Free 3-Day-or-sooner expedited shipping on qualifying items.
Add up to four friends to your account so they can enjoy your great Newegg Premier benefits.
Free shipping on returns and waived restocking fee for qualifying items.
Need quick assistance? Use our private customer service line to help answer any questions or concerns.
Learn More | Sign Up Now
Shop Exclusive Deals on our Mobile App!
Our latest email deals.
New deals everyday!
Every week, the Newegg deals team hand-picks intriguing products for you.
Open box, clearance, refurbished and recertified PCs, electronics and more.













Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated.
Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated.
Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated.
Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated.


Blend of net +‎ notebook, a trademark registered by Psion.
netbook (plural netbooks)
netbook m (plural netbooks)
There seems to be a problem serving the request at this time
Showing slide {CURRENT_SLIDE} of {TOTAL_SLIDES} - Shop by Brand
HP
Dell
Apple
Lenovo
ASUS
Acer
Toshiba
Samsung
Alienware
Sony
MSI
Gateway
Showing slide {CURRENT_SLIDE} of {TOTAL_SLIDES} - Limited Time Deals
eBay determines this price through a machine learned model of the product's sale prices within the last 90 days.
eBay determines this price through a machine learned model of the product's sale prices within the last 90 days.
eBay determines this price through a machine learned model of the product's sale prices within the last 90 days.
Showing slide {CURRENT_SLIDE} of {TOTAL_SLIDES} - Best Selling
Trending price is based on prices over last 90 days.
Showing slide {CURRENT_SLIDE} of {TOTAL_SLIDES} - Save on Laptops & Netbooks
Looking for the latest laptop in the market or a model that suits your specific computing needs?
These laptops include the latest generations of Intel® and AMD processors, Nvidia® graphic cards, HDD or SSD, long-lasting battery power and a wide variety of screen sizes for all your editing and gaming needs. Or if you're looking to enjoy the latest movies find a laptop with the best display available. These laptops and netbooks run on the latest versions of Windows®, macOS® and ChromeOS. Ready to buy your new laptop with us?
Let’s review what the best brands have to offer in terms of security, performance, durability, versatility, and power. Discover the different types of laptops and netbooks from the most prestigious brands eBay has to offer.
Laptops and computers run on a specific Operating System (OS). Windows®, macOS® and ChromeOS™ have been widely adopted by manufacturers and users alike. Let’s take a look at the most significant aspects of these three OSs.
Windows 10 is the latest version and it can be found in many laptops and computers from different sellers. As previous OS from Microsoft, this version of Windows can be found in Home, and Pro as standalone editions. Home is aimed at home users, while Pro is aimed at small businesses. Other versions are mostly sold under volume licensing, such as Pro Education, Education, Mobile Enterprise, Enterprise, S, and Mobile, among others.
macOS High Sierra (2017) is the latest release of Apple’s OS. The name alludes to its status as a refinement of its predecessor (Sierra), released in 2016. High Sierra focuses on performance improvements and technical updates rather than user features. Among the apps with notable changes are Photos and Safari. refinement of its predecessor (Sierra), released in 2016. High Sierra focuses on performance improvements and technical updates rather than user features. Among the apps with notable changes are Photos and Safari.
Chrome OS is an operating system designed by Google that uses the Google Chrome web browser as its principal user interface. As a result, Chrome OS primarily supports web applications. Chromebooks (laptops based on ChromeOS) are made by several different manufacturers such as Samsung, Lenovo, Asus and HP.
MacBook Pro®, MacBook® and MacBook Air® are the flagship models from Apple.
The MacBook Pro features the Touch Bar®, a Multi-Touch enabled strip of glass built into the keyboard for instant access to the tools you want, right when you want them. Additionally, this model can give you up to 10 hours of battery, it comes with Retina Display and it can be found in 13-inch and 15-inch screen sizes.
The MacBook delivers up to 20 percent faster performance with new 7th‑generation Intel Core® m3, i5, and i7 processors, and up to 50 percent faster SSD storage.
The thin, light and powerful MacBook Air lasts up to 12 hours between charges. Built around its SSD storage, the MacBook Air has been designed to be light, fast, responsive, secure and with a long battery lifespan in mind.
The MacBook Air comes with SSD storage, backlit keyboard, vibrant display, Intel® Core™ Processors, 4GB of RAM, FaceTime® HD Camera, USB 3.0 and Thunderbolt 2 ports among other features.
HP® Laptops and netbooks include a series of powerful computers to cover specific needs for every kind of user. From business-oriented laptops to the fastest and strongest models for gamers, they all come packed with the latest in display, audio and processors.
HP and Pavilion X360 offer 4 models, but Spectre and Envy X360 families may be considered HP’s best 2 in 1 laptops. The award-winning HP Spectre premium 360 is convertible with next-level features that give you all-day portability in a stunning, ultra-thin design.
For all the gamers out there, the quad core Pavilion laptops are popular among casual gamers, but consider the HP Omen family of gaming laptops. With the HP Omen laptop, HP’s best gaming laptop yet, get ready for the battlefield, anytime, anywhere.
Among the different series of HP laptops, you can find touch screens, SDD or HDD storage units, different sizes of displays, ports, processors, graphic cards and other features to fit your needs.
Dell offers affordable laptops and 2-in-1 PCs that offer versatile everyday computing to meet your needs and spark your potential.
Dell’s newest line of 2-in-1 and laptops come with the best of both worlds; transition between laptop, tent, tablet or stand modes as you edit photos, update your blog, stream your favorite entertainment or prepare a report.
Equipped with 7th Gen Intel® processors, robust storage and HD displays, the Inspiron 2-in-1s offer laptop capabilities in a design that’s infinitely more flexible.
Your laptop is your gateway to the online world and beyond (except for your smartphone, of course).
Lenovo provides a series of powerhouse laptops for the creator, the professional or the gamer. These performance computers combine portability with the full versatility and power of a full desktop computer.
With Lenovo, you can get:
Lenovo’s ThinkPad are said to be tough as nails and highly reliable. These series of laptops and 2-in-1 set the standard for business with high performing graphics and processing with ultra-responsive touchscreen technology. Other features that have made the ThinkPad very popular among users is the pen support and outstanding battery lifespan.
Gamers don’t have to feel bound to their desktops anymore. Lenovo’s Legion is powered by 7th Gen Intel® Core™ processors and NVIDIA GTX 1060 discrete graphics. This much power can even give you the chance to experience VR gaming. This brand also has budget options for casual gamers. But whatever laptop you choose look to lose yourself in immersive audio and vivid displays.
The “Seriously cool” laptop is here. Lenovo’s Yoga line of laptops and Ultrabooks™ combine adaptability with innovative engineering. Vibrant displays and immersive audio? Check. Tablets that work as movie or presentation projectors? Yep. Pen support for artists and designers and a Halo Keyboard that’s seriously like nothing you’ve ever seen before? It’s all yours to explore.
Getting lost isn't the problem. It's the goal!
The Alienware gaming laptops are compact, powerful and designed with latest Intel® Core™ processors for providing the most intense gaming experience.
Alienware offers the stunning new “15” and the “17” (named after their screen size), both running with 6th generation Intel® Core™ i7 Processors and NVIDIA® GeForce® GTX 1070 graphic card to let you conquer any game.
Acer is one of the top selling laptop manufacturers in the world. There is a variety of different models available, each aimed at giving you the best possible laptop experience and the best features with affordable prices.
The Aspire Series, their most popular line, offers a diverse range of laptops that give you the performance, graphics and communication tools to step up your digital entertainment, complete your daily computing tasks, and stay in touch with everyone you know.
Toshiba’s catalog of laptops, netbooks, 2-in-1s spreads covers all the needs you might have when choosing the perfect computer.
With Tecra®, Protégé® and the powerful dynaEdge Mobile mini, Toshiba provides laptops with HD and FHD displays, Dual Mics, SDD storage systems, 7th Generation Intel Core processors, Pillar technology to reduce keyboard bounce and a long-lasting battery lifespan.
Samsung laptops and netbooks are sleek and powerful and they come ready for work and play. The ready-to-travel and brand-new flagship, the Samsung Notebook 9, is packed with power. Get more done with the ultra-fast Intel® Core™ i7 Processor. Immerse yourself in its Full-HD display or use your USB-C™ cable to easily power up on the road.
MSI understands gaming as few do. Its G notebook series are built with the state-of-the-art components delivering the best in-gaming technology.
These laptops deliver high performance for any gaming enthusiast and are categorized from performance driven portable gaming solutions to high-end desktop replacement powerhouses. MSI laptops and notebooks come with optical drives, backlit keyboard for your late-night gaming, 7th Gen Intel Core processor, USB 3.1, Thunderbolt 3 (Type C), Bluetooth® v4.1 among other features.
ASUS® laptops balance advanced technology and ultramodern design. The latest models will give you 4K displays, 7th Gen Intel Core processors, and up to 16GB of RAM memory. For ASUS, security matters and some of their latest models come with fingerprint reader to keep your computer and your information out of unauthorized scrutiny.
ASUS makes a wide variety of laptops and 2-in-1s that run on Chrome OS. These Chromebooks vary from 10” to 12.5” displays and memory RAM options that go from 2GB up to 16GB. Moreover, these computers include USB and HDMI ports and are powered by Intel chipsets or Rockchip® CPU.
With the multitude of mobile electronic devices available today, terms like laptop, notebook, netbook, and tablet may become confusing to some users. In this guide, buyers interested in purchasing a laptop or netbook will learn about the differences in size, portability, input options, hardware, and pricing between all these types of machines. Below, we give you a quick description of the aspects you can keep in mind when looking for one or the other:
Generally, a laptop’s size is referred to in terms of its screen size, which is measured diagonally from corner to corner of the actual screen, not including the exterior casing. Smaller laptops may have a 14-inch screen, whereas the largest laptops boast screen sizes of 18.4 inches, with some even extending to 20 inches. The larger screen sizes are primarily reserved for massive, powerful laptops with high-end graphics capabilities that are generally used by gamers. Laptops can also be heavy, with the average laptop weighing around four to six pounds and some gaming laptops weighing as much as 10 pounds. When you first pick up one of these machines, the weight may not seem significant. However, if you will need to carry the laptop in a shoulder bag or in a hand-held laptop case for any length of time, you will soon realize how heavy those four to six pounds can become.
Netbooks like the ASUS Eee PC, the HP Mini 1000, or the Acer Aspire One have much smaller screens. A netbook’s screen is usually seven to 10 inches in diameter, while the typical weight of a netbook is two or three pounds. Netbooks are also much thinner than most laptops, except for the ultra-thin MacBook Air laptop.
Laptops and netbooks offer a variety of input options, both for user controls and for input such as files and programs. Both feature a keyboard, USB ports, and a touchpad that can be used instead of a mouse. However, laptops include some features that netbooks do not, for instance: optical drive, full numeral keyboards, bigger speaker system, larger screens, and they are easier to upgrade.
Since they are designed for portability, most laptops have keyboards that are smaller than standard-size versions. Netbooks, however, are even smaller than laptops, and thus feature a much more compact keyboard. For limited use, this may serve you well. For long periods of typing, you may find that the cramped position into which their hands are forced causes pain in their wrists and fingers. Left untreated, such pain can develop into a condition known as carpal tunnel syndrome. If you plan to type for long periods of time, you may wish to consider a larger netbook or a laptop.
Laptops feature an optical disc drive, which means that they can play CDs or DVDs. Netbooks, due to their small size and limited hardware, have no CD/DVD drive. External optical drives may be an alternative for netbook owners, however. These drives can be plugged in via USB port, but since the USB ports on a netbook are limited, you may find yourself using all the available ports to run the external optical drive. If netbook owners are considering booting up their machine via optical drive, they should be aware that most netbooks cannot boot up from a USB drive.
Both laptops and netbooks feature USB and Ethernet ports, although these ports are limited compared to the number available on a typical desktop computer. With the increasing capacity and speed of USB flash drives (also referred to as thumb drives or flash drives) and the variety of software available for direct download from the Web, netbook users may not even miss having an optical drive. They can use their regular desktop PC to transfer programs, media, and other information to the netbook as needed or a cloud service platform they might be subscribed to.
The hardware in a laptop is much more powerful than that found in a typical netbook. The key pieces of hardware for which this difference is most noticeable are the hard drive, the processor, and the battery.
The laptop or netbook’s hard drive contains its operating systems and all your software, programs, and files. A hard drive contains layers of rotating, circular platters made of glass or aluminum and covered with a sensitive magnetic coating. The hard drive reads the data from these platters. A speck of dirt or dust on one of the platters can be enough to cause serious damage or data loss to the hard drive. Many laptops include plenty of hard drive space, sometimes up to 250GB. Netbooks, on the other hand, sometimes come with as little as 16GB of hard drive space.
Laptops and netbooks should be stored in durable cases with cushioned compartments, and you should avoid dropping them or even setting them down with too much force.
Laptops have much higher processing power than netbooks do. Some laptops contain dual-core or even quad-core processors, resulting in a significant jump in processing power. Netbooks are not designed for heavy-duty graphics. They are much more useful for simple word processing, emails, Web surfing, preparing presentations, creating spreadsheets, and similar tasks.
The reduced size of the netbook means that it cannot contain a large battery. Its battery life is limited, ranging from two to six hours of battery with average use. The smaller the netbook, the shorter its battery life is likely to be.
Although laptops commonly have larger batteries, they also run hardware that is more powerful and run more programs and processes, so their average battery life may not be much longer than that of a netbook.
Laptops contain more digital storage space, bigger and better hardware, and bigger screens, and each of those amenities costs the manufacturer money, which translates into a higher price tag for you. Since netbooks are designed to serve basic graphics and hardware functions, manufacturers develop them with small screens, and using hardware with minimal requirements which results in low-cost machines.
Netbooks were originally developed back in 2007 as a new class of personal computer system. The original models were designed to offer basic computing experience in a compact laptop design with a price tag of roughly $200 to $300, which was incredibly inexpensive at the time.
Over the years, the features and price of netbooks continued to climb while classic laptop prices continued to fall. Ultimately, netbooks faded out when tablets became popular.
Most recently, however, the idea of extremely affordable and compact laptops has risen again with a number of companies essentially releasing systems that share many of the same traits as netbooks, but without that specific name.
Most netbook class laptops are not what you would consider fast. They are not designed for speed but more for power efficiency. They tend to use a different class of processor from traditional laptops that are closer to what's used in a tablet.
This is because they only need enough processor performance to handle basic computing tasks like web browsing, email, word processing, spreadsheets, and basic photo editing.
Unless you need support for gaming and streaming, or intense photo and video editing, you do not need much computing power.
When netbooks originally came out, a CD or DVD drive was still very much a requirement for most computers since that was the common way to install software. Now, however, it's becoming increasingly difficult to find a laptop that actually features one.
This is because optical drives are not a requirement for computers thanks to digital software distribution. Most software programs are available online, even commercial programs that aren't freely available.
Therefore, in this respect, there really isn't much of a distinction between a netbook and a traditional laptop.
Solid state drives (SSDs) are becoming much more common with mobile computers. Their compact size, low power consumption, and durability make them ideal for mobile devices.
In fact, netbooks were originally some of the first personal computers to use them with any regularity. They still have the disadvantage of not offering as much storage space as traditional hard drives, though, and as a result, most netbook class laptops usually have storage capacities of roughly 32 to 64 GB.
In addition to this, they use less expensive drives that offer lower performance than standard SATA based drives found in many laptops.
LCD displays are probably the biggest cost to manufacturers of laptop PCs. In order to reduce the overall costs of these systems, manufacturers developed them using smaller screens.
The first netbooks used relatively small 7-inch screens. Since then, monitors have been getting progressively larger. Most newer laptops that would be considered netbooks feature screens with a ten to twelve-inch size. It should be noted that they often are not touchscreens and have lower resolutions to, once again, keep the costs down.
The first netbooks were incredibly light at just over two pounds, while a traditional laptop was weighing in around five pounds. Now, most laptops have become smaller, weighing between three and four pounds, and competing tablets often at less than a pound.
They don't have the ultra-compact size that they once did, but they're still very portable for many people.
The typical netbook-style laptop is often sold as an extremely portable system that runs Windows, but there are restrictions that users should be aware of.
For example, they often ship with a 32-bit version of Windows rather than 64-bit that most systems do. This is because the netbook class laptops feature just 2 GB of memory and the smaller 32-bit software executables take up less space and memory.
The downside is that there are sometimes cases where the traditional Windows software that you wish to run on these computers, will not. More than anything else, this is often due to the hardware limitations like the memory or the speed of the processor.
If you're thinking of getting a netbook computer, look very carefully at the hardware requirements of any software you intend to run on it. Items like mail, web browsers, and productivity software, for the most part, won't be too restricted. Instead, however, it's more the media focused applications that involve graphics and video that you'll find the netbook is woefully underpowered to run.
If you find that your favorite applications will not work on a netbook, you might consider a traditional laptop or a gaming laptop.
Netbooks were always about cost, but this was their original downfall. While the original systems were priced around $200 with laptops over $500, the gradual price increases on netbooks and the decreasing costs of traditional laptops meant that the systems were doomed.
Now, it's relatively easy to find a traditional laptop for under $500. As a result, the newer crop of netbook laptops on the market are all roughly $200, many not even getting any more expensive than $250.
Tablets are the primary reason that netbooks had to get back to keeping prices as low as possible.
The newer class of super affordable Windows laptops is a difficult one. They are certainly affordable at just $200, but their features limit the usefulness (for most people).
It's much harder to justify a netbook over a tablet when you can essentially get nearly identical internal components from a netbook inside a Windows-based tablet. The main difference is seen when you decide whether or not you prefer a touchscreen or a keyboard for input.
Also, the wider range of software makes it harder to distinguish a traditional Windows system from a tablet. More than anything else, it essentially comes down to how you intend to use the devices.
There was an error. Please try again.
Thank you for signing up.
Earlier this week, my colleague Chaim Gartenberg covered a laptop called the GPD Pocket, which is currently being funded on Indiegogo. As Chaim pointed out, the Pocket’s main advantage is its size — with a 7-inch screen, the thing is really, really small — and its price, a reasonable $399. But he didn’t mention that the Pocket is the resurrection of one of the most compelling, yet fatally flawed, computing trends of the ‘00s: the netbook. So after ten years, are netbooks finally cool again? That might be putting it too strongly, but I’m willing to hope.
If you’ve quite understandably forgotten the netbook boom, it started around 2007, with a computer called the Asus Eee PC. The original Eee PC was a $399 laptop with a 7-inch screen, a modest processor, and a ridiculously tiny 4GB of flash memory instead of a hard drive. Especially if you were a college student at the time, it was amazing. The Eee PC had the portability of an ultra-mobile PC, but at the cost of a cheapo Windows laptop. It was a tiny Linux-based notebook like the OLPC XO-1, but felt actually usable, instead of just confusing. The battery wasn’t incredible, but you could eke several hours out of it at a time, a great improvement over my portable desktop at the time. And the thing was adorable, especially because Asus’ slogan at the time was “Rock solid, heart touching,” which splashed on the screen every time you booted it up.
Over the next few years, basically every Windows PC maker produced its own cheap, ultra-portable laptop. If you needed a lightweight, low-investment machine to write papers and surf Facebook on, these were perfect. The iPad wouldn’t be released until 2010, and the first-generation MacBook Air — at that point the coolest thin-and-light laptop on the market — cost over $1,500. Most netbooks started shipping with sizable hard drives and some version of Windows, which eliminated the hurdle of switching to Linux. Battery life stretched to six or eight hours. Designs stayed light, but screens and keyboards got a little bigger, making the experience more comfortable.
But netbooks also came with major compromises. One was the ubiquitous Intel Atom low-power processor, which sometimes struggled with handling basic computer multitasking. Windows felt slow and heavy compared to a good netbook-specific flavor of Linux, but if you needed to run a Windows-specific program, you’d be out of luck. (Yes, you could set up a dual-boot system. That requires more effort than most people want to put into a $400 laptop.) And even as netbooks grew in size, their keyboards were often cramped — my small fingers started to feel like a superpower, and I still had trouble with the original Eee PC. After a while, the netbook became one of those things I’d suggest with the cautious qualification that it wasn’t for everybody, like my favorite cheap whiskey or an early Man Man album.
I stuck with netbooks years after they had peaked, because they were good supplementary computers and I was kind of a cheapskate. But after trying to edit photos with one at my first CES in 2012, their performance shortcomings became more and more evident. Meanwhile, my options had blossomed: the higher-powered thin-and-light ultrabook category was gaining steam, tablets were real productivity devices, and Chromebooks offered similar basic capabilities at a rock-bottom price. Netbooks remain on sale today, but they’re largely holdovers from an earlier time.
The GPD Pocket feels like a nostalgic throwback for netbook lovers, and that’s both a good and bad thing. It brings back their combination of tiny form factor, long battery life, relatively low price, and full desktop operating system; you can even get a version with Ubuntu Linux. If it works well, I think there’s a real, if niche, audience. But without trying it, the Atom processor still makes me nervous, and so does the keyboard size, which reminds me a tiny bit too much of the Psion I briefly tried writing with.
Will I get a Pocket? Probably not. My phone can now handle the emails and web surfing I’d have once used a netbook for, my MacBook can do the heavy typing, and if I need a super-portable writing tool, I’ve got a literal paper notebook. Besides, I still have three little computers stacked around my office, two of which I rescued from neighbors and coworkers planning to throw them out. I can’t take any more fancy new netbooks into my life — I only collect strays. But here’s hoping that GPD resurrects the best features of this peculiar category, and makes some new netbook converts along the way.
Command Line delivers daily updates from the near-future.
Lots of options, but only one you, right? Narrow your choices by category, and find the laptop you truly want.
Enterprise-level performance. Investment-wise durability. Premium reliability.
Stylish design. Impressive performance. Innovative 2-in-1 versatility.
Broad portfolio. Entry-level to gaming powerhouse. Laptops and 2-in-1s.
Detachable 2-in-1s. Great for work & play. Ultraportable.
Innovative design, responsive performance.
Plenty to consider before making your purchase. Let us help.
Productivity workhorses. Secure & reliable. Enterprise-ready.
Portable family desktops. Parent- and child-friendly. Great for work & play.
A business investment requires due diligence. Research your choices here.
Matchless desktop performance. ISV certifications. Top-of-the line specs.
Because your tablet is like an extension of your personality. Check out specifics, and complement yourself.
Multimedia tablets Lightweight & portable Budget friendly
Business-ready tablets. Mobile productivity redefined. Iron-clad security.
Detachable 2-in-1s. Great for work & play. Ultraportable.
Multi-use mobility, home & work





A netbook is a device that can perform the majority of the functions of a desktop or laptop, but is extremely mobile. Netbooks look like miniature laptops, with screens rarely exceeding 10 or 12 inches. Netbooks have been around since 2008 (although there are some disputes regarding what actually constituted the first netbook) and are generally characterized by a distinct dependency on connecting to a network, or the highlighted ability to connect to a network.
Since their inception, netbooks have undergone a significant number of changes and have taken on many different forms. Everything from the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC)– a very cheap, durable netbook produced specifically for children in third-world countries—to the sleek, hip Google Chromebook can be considered a netbook.
The netbook reigned the economical mobile market for some time, particularly amongst users who primarily purchased the devices for Web browsing on the go. Network service providers offered plans for data cards so users could plug into the netbook and browse directly on a mobile device network. Many tech blogs noted the netbook’s revolutionary impact on mobile browsing and highlighted the device as a game-changer to the laptop industry.
In 2011, tablet computers surpassed netbook sales for the first time. However, tablets often still do not possess the same functionality, comfort and flexibility offered by netbook laptops.
As previously detailed, netbooks are primarily mobile Web browsing tools. They do not have some of the functionalities offered by a desktop or laptop, like advanced or heavy design programming or gaming. However, because they offer connectivity to the Internet and the most pertinent productivity tools, such as word processing, calculations and the like, they are actually excellent budget computing options, educational tools and mobile workstations.
Netbooks prove ideal for students. They’re cheap yet durable, and their basic functionalities make the device a distraction-free, practical learning tool that students can easily carry around. From elementary school to college, students will find netbooks are easy to manage, organize and perform school-related tasks.
More and more, school districts throughout the country are issuing netbooks to students. School-issued netbooks give a level playing field to all students for garnering 21st century computing skills required of them in today’s tech-savvy working world.
Likewise, busy businessmen and women who are constantly on the go could benefit greatly from a netbook. Tablets can sometimes be difficult to work on, especially when putting together a business presentation or remotely complex assignment. However, a netbook’s familiar layout and relatively advanced functionality make it an ideal mobile workstation. Additionally, and unlike laptops, employers can provide netbooks to employees economically, while maintaining a secure fleet of devices for work-only uses.
While tablets are becoming more popular, they have their limitations. As noted above, netbooks are an economical and productive means to educate students and move businesses forward. New microchips, software and network connectivity capabilities will only bolster netbooks’ potential reach and productivity thresholds. Their mobility, in particular, and their connectivity, in general, make them ideal for the dissemination of information and technology in the developing world as well as educating a 21st century workforce at home.
Ultraportable Productivity Tools
2-in-1 Ultra-Sleek Laptops
2-in-1 Business-Ready Laptops
Ultrabook, Celeron, Celeron Inside, Core Inside, Intel, Intel Logo, Intel Atom, Intel Atom Inside, Intel Core, Intel Inside, Intel Inside Logo, Intel vPro, Itanium, Itanium Inside, Pentium, Pentium Inside, vPro Inside, Xeon, Xeon Phi, and Xeon Inside are trademarks of Intel Corporation or its subsidiaries in the U.S. and/or other countries.
follow Dictionary.com
"The netbook," which is now only compatible with iPhone and iPad devices, is available to download from the iTunes App store.
By all accounts, the company's first tablet PC—an answer to the netbook explosion—will be released sometime next year.
Well, unless you illegally hack it and put it on a $150 netbook, like I did last month.
Mac OS X is actually bigger than the whole hard drive on my current netbook, anyway.
With Google now building a Linux-based netbook OS of its own, those last barriers to entry will be removed.


Displaying Results
Bottom Line: The third variation on the Chromebook theme, the Acer C7 Chromebook (C710-2457) drops the price but loses a couple choice features to do so. But even with the changes it's still a bargain.
Bottom Line: The third variation on the Chromebook theme, the Acer C7 Chromebook (C710-2457) drops the price but loses a couple choice features to do so. But even with the changes it's still a bargain.
Bottom Line: Though it still has a couple of faults, the new version of the Acer C7 Chromebook is faster, longer lasting, and better all around. All this and its very low price tag makes it the best inexpensive Chromebook on the market.
Bottom Line: Though it still has a couple of faults, the new version of the Acer C7 Chromebook is faster, longer lasting, and better all around. All this and its very low price tag makes it the best inexpensive Chromebook on the market.
Bottom Line: The Samsung Chromebook Series 3 (XE303C12) laptop delivers what we wanted from Google all alonga cheap, portable way to get online, with nothing getting in the way.
Bottom Line: The Samsung Chromebook Series 3 (XE303C12) laptop delivers what we wanted from Google all alonga cheap, portable way to get online, with nothing getting in the way.
Bottom Line: The 2go PC NL3 Classmate PC makes some performance gains with a quick solid-state drive and a long-lasting battery, but we've seen this same package with better software.
Bottom Line: The 2go PC NL3 Classmate PC makes some performance gains with a quick solid-state drive and a long-lasting battery, but we've seen this same package with better software.
Bottom Line: The DirAction NL3 Classmate PC offers a kid-friendly design, lots of educational apps, and works with classroom management software. It's useful and affordable enough to compensate for its middling hardware and performance.
Bottom Line: The DirAction NL3 Classmate PC offers a kid-friendly design, lots of educational apps, and works with classroom management software. It's useful and affordable enough to compensate for its middling hardware and performance.
Bottom Line: The Lenovo ThinkPad X130e is a semi-rugged netbook, outfitted with enough padding to survive the day-to-day dings of traveling across campus or running from terminal A to B.
Bottom Line: The Lenovo ThinkPad X130e is a semi-rugged netbook, outfitted with enough padding to survive the day-to-day dings of traveling across campus or running from terminal A to B.
Bottom Line: The HP Pavilion dm1-3010nr offers up a powerful portable QWERTY keyboard solution complete with 4G connectivity for the traveling businessman.
Bottom Line: The HP Pavilion dm1-3010nr offers up a powerful portable QWERTY keyboard solution complete with 4G connectivity for the traveling businessman.
Bottom Line: The Sony VAIO VPC-YB35KX is a competent netbook, with an AMD APU that offers a decent combination of processing and graphics, and a healthy feature set that includes stereo Bluetooth, HDMI, and two card reader slots. Its battery life is a bit of a letdown, but it's not so bad as to be a deal breaker.
Bottom Line: The Sony VAIO VPC-YB35KX is a competent netbook, with an AMD APU that offers a decent combination of processing and graphics, and a healthy feature set that includes stereo Bluetooth, HDMI, and two card reader slots. Its battery life is a bit of a letdown, but it's not so bad as to be a deal breaker.
Bottom Line: The Acer Aspire One AO722-0828 has a few stand-out features, for a netbook: 4GB of RAM and a 500GB hard drive are rare finds in this category. But a relatively short battery life leaves something to be desired.
Bottom Line: The Acer Aspire One AO722-0828 has a few stand-out features, for a netbook: 4GB of RAM and a 500GB hard drive are rare finds in this category. But a relatively short battery life leaves something to be desired.
Bottom Line: For the professional on the go, the Dell Latitude 2120 looks great and performs even better, but competing business netbooks do better on price.
Bottom Line: For the professional on the go, the Dell Latitude 2120 looks great and performs even better, but competing business netbooks do better on price.
Bottom Line: If you're looking for a cheap, bare-bones netbook, the Acer Aspire One 722-BZ480 is not a bad choice.
Bottom Line: If you're looking for a cheap, bare-bones netbook, the Acer Aspire One 722-BZ480 is not a bad choice.
Bottom Line: The Lenovo IdeaPad S205 is a speedy, oversized netbook that can serve as primary laptop, but this configuration is a bit pricey compared to others in its class.
Bottom Line: The Lenovo IdeaPad S205 is a speedy, oversized netbook that can serve as primary laptop, but this configuration is a bit pricey compared to others in its class.
Bottom Line: Fully ruggedized inside and out, the Panasonic Toughbook U1-Ultra can survive anything you throw at it, and it has more functions than a Swiss Army knife. It may not be a good fit for most, but for anyone who works in extreme conditions, it's the portable computer you'll want in your hands.
Bottom Line: Fully ruggedized inside and out, the Panasonic Toughbook U1-Ultra can survive anything you throw at it, and it has more functions than a Swiss Army knife. It may not be a good fit for most, but for anyone who works in extreme conditions, it's the portable computer you'll want in your hands.
Bottom Line: Product not yet reviewed by PCMag Editors.
Bottom Line: Product not yet reviewed by PCMag Editors.
Bottom Line: The Asus Eee PC 1015B offers a basic netbook for under $300, a price low enough to overlook a few flaws, like slow performance and a cramped keyboard.
Bottom Line: The Asus Eee PC 1015B offers a basic netbook for under $300, a price low enough to overlook a few flaws, like slow performance and a cramped keyboard.
Bottom Line: With the Samsung Chromebook Series 5, the company's first Chromebook, you're paying more for a netbook that runs an unpolished OS than one that has Windows 7.
Bottom Line: With the Samsung Chromebook Series 5, the company's first Chromebook, you're paying more for a netbook that runs an unpolished OS than one that has Windows 7.
Bottom Line: The Asus EeePC 1215B is a competent netbook with some high-end features, like USB 3.0, HDMI with 1080p output, and an AMD E-350 processor.
Bottom Line: The Asus EeePC 1215B is a competent netbook with some high-end features, like USB 3.0, HDMI with 1080p output, and an AMD E-350 processor.
Bottom Line: With its speedy dual-core AMD E-350 processor, large 500GB hard drive, and a size that is at once compact and large enough for comfortable typing and viewing, the Sony VAIO VPC-YB15KX/S is a strong new entry in the netbook market.
Bottom Line: With its speedy dual-core AMD E-350 processor, large 500GB hard drive, and a size that is at once compact and large enough for comfortable typing and viewing, the Sony VAIO VPC-YB15KX/S is a strong new entry in the netbook market.
Bottom Line: The flip screen implementation is an original and refreshing take on the convertible tablet, but the Dell Inspiron Duo underwhelms when it comes to features and tablet performance.
Bottom Line: The flip screen implementation is an original and refreshing take on the convertible tablet, but the Dell Inspiron Duo underwhelms when it comes to features and tablet performance.
Bottom Line: The updates aren't major and there are better netbooks out there, but the Toshiba mini NB305-N600 has all your basic netbook needs for one low price.
Bottom Line: The updates aren't major and there are better netbooks out there, but the Toshiba mini NB305-N600 has all your basic netbook needs for one low price.
© 1996-2018 Ziff Davis, LLC. PCMag Digital Group PC, PC Magazine and PC PCMag.com are among the federally registered trademarks of Ziff Davis, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.
We have updated our PRIVACY POLICY and encourage you to read it by clicking here.
