early 13c., verbal noun from sit (v.). Meaning "a meeting of a body" is from c.1400. Meaning "interval during which one sits" (for some purpose, especially to have one's portrait taken) is from 1706. Sitting-room first recorded 1771. Slang sitting duck "easy target" first recorded 1944; literal sense is from 1867 (it is considered not sporting to shoot at one).
"But his sitting there eating in that—that shirt—" said his sister.
Mrs. Rushton was sitting at her work, in rather a disconsolate frame of mind.
His nephew, with his coat stripped off, was sitting on the side of the bed.
“Would that you had been with us,” said Ambrose, sitting down beside him on the step.
She's sitting up nights to corner all the Amalgamated Hard-luck on ...
Sitting is a basic human resting position. The body weight is supported primarily by the buttocks in contact with the ground or a horizontal object such as a chair seat. The torso is more or less upright. Sitting for much of the day may pose significant health risks, and people who sit regularly for prolonged periods have higher mortality rates than those who do not.[1]
The form of kneeling where the thighs are near horizontal and the buttocks sit back on the heels, for example as in Seiza and Vajrasana (yoga), is also often interpreted as sitting.


The British Chiropractic Association said in 2006 that 32% of the British population spent more than ten hours per day sitting down.[2]
The most common ways of sitting on the floor involve bending the knees. One can also sit with the legs unbent, using something solid as support for the back or leaning on one's arms. Sitting with bent legs can be done with the legs mostly parallel or by crossing them over each other.
A common cross-legged position is with the lower part of both legs folded towards the body, crossing each other at the ankle or calf, with both ankles on the floor, sometimes with the feet tucked under the knees or thighs. The position is known in several European languages as tailor style, from the traditional working posture of tailors;[3] compare tailor's bunion. It is also named after various plains-dwelling nomads: in American English Indian style, in many European languages "Turkish style", and in Japanese agura (胡座, The sitting style of non-Han ethnics (particularly Turks, Mongols and other Central Asians.)). In yoga it is known as sukhasana.
Most raised surfaces at the appropriate height can be used as seats for humans, whether they are made for the purpose, such as chairs, stools and benches, or not. While the buttocks are nearly always rested on the raised surface, there are many differences in how one can hold one's legs and back.
There are two major styles of sitting on a raised surface. The first has one or two of the legs in front of the sitting person; in the second, sitting astride something, the legs incline outwards on either side of the body.
The feet can rest on the floor, or on a footrest, which can keep them vertical, horizontal, or at an angle in between. They can also dangle if the seat is sufficiently high. Legs can be kept right to the front of the body, spread apart, or one crossed over the other.
The upper body can be held upright, recline to either side or backwards, or one can lean forward.
There are many seated positions in various traditions and rituals. Four examples are:
In various mythologies and folk magic, sitting is a magical act that connects the person who sits with other persons, states or places.[4]
There is a significantly higher mortality rate among people who regularly sit for prolonged periods, and the risk is not negated by regular exercise, though it is lowered.[1][5] The causes of mortality and morbidity include heart disease, obesity, type 2 diabetes and cancer, specifically, breast, endometrial, colorectal, lung, and epithelial ovarian cancer.[1][5][6][7][8] The link between heart disease and diabetes mortality and sitting is well-established, but the risk of cancer mortality is unclear.[7][9] Sedentary time is also associated with an increased risk of depression in children and adolescents.[10] A correlation between occupational sitting specifically and higher body mass index has been demonstrated, but causality has not yet been established.[5] There are several hypotheses explaining why sitting is a health risk. These include changes in cardiac output, vitamin D, inflammation, sex hormone activity, lipoprotein lipase activity, and GLUT4 activity due to long periods of muscular unloading, among others.[5][7][8]
Sitting may occupy up to half of an adult's workday in developed countries.[5] Workplace programs to reduce sitting vary in method. They include sit-stand desks, counseling, workplace policy changes, walking/standing meetings, treadmill desks, breaks, therapy ball chairs, and stepping devices.[6][11] Results of these programs are mixed,[6] but there is moderate evidence to show that changes to chairs (adjusting the biomechanics of the chair or using different types of chairs) can effectively reduce musculoskeletal symptoms in workers who sit for most of their day.[12]
Public health programs typically focus on increasing physical activity rather than reducing sitting time.[1][13] One major target for these public health programs is sitting in the workplace.[6][11] For example, WHO Europe recommended in September 2015 the provision of adjustable desks in the workplace.[13] In general, there is conflicting evidence regarding the precise risks of sitting for long periods.[5] A 2015 Cochrane review found low-quality evidence for sit-stand desks and/or counseling as effective workplace programs to reduce the total time spent sitting and the number of instances of long-term sitting.[11] As there are many new studies under way, the Cochrane Review is being updated, with the help of a crowd funding campaign that runs from September 2015 till December 2015.[14] Similarly a recently published review concluded that interventions aimed at reducing sitting outside of work were only modestly effective.[15]
The kneeling chair (often just referred to as "ergonomic chair") was designed to encourage better posture than the conventional chair.[qualify evidence] To sit in a kneeling chair, one rests one's buttocks on the upper sloping pad and rests the front of the lower legs atop the lower pad, i.e., the human position as both sitting and kneeling at the same time.
It may be time to ditch the desk chair: A new study links sitting too much each day with memory problems in middle-age and older adults.
Researchers from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) found that long stretches of sedentary behavior — like spending all day in your desk chair — were linked to changes in a part of the adult brain that's critical for memory.
Earlier research has linked sedentary behavior to an increased risk of heart disease, diabetes and premature death in middle-age and older adults. The new study, published yesterday (April 12) in the journal PLOS One, builds on this, focusing on inactivity's impacts on the brain, according to a statement from the researchers.
Specifically, the new study linked sedentary behavior to thinning of the medial temporal lobe, a brain region involved in the formation of new memories, the researchers said in the statement. Brain thinning can be a precursor to cognitive decline and dementia in middle-age and older adults, the researchers added. [Don't Sit Tight: 6 Ways to Make a Deadly Activity Healthier]
The study included 35 people between the ages of 45 and 75. Researchers asked the participants about their physical activity levels and the average number of hours per day they'd spent sitting over the previous week.
Then, the researchers scanned the participants' brains. Using a high-resolution MRI scan, the scientists got a detailed look at the medial temporal lobe of each participant and identified relationships among this region's thickness, the participants' physical activity levels and their sitting behavior, according to the study.
The results showed that sitting for extended periods of time was closely associated with thinning in the medial temporal lobe, regardless of one's physical activity level. In other words, the study suggests that "sedentary behavior is a significant predictor of thinning of the [medial temporal lobe] and that physical activity, even at high levels, is insufficient to offset the harmful effects of sitting for extended periods," the researchers said in the statement.
The participants reported that they spent from 3 to 7 hours, on average, sitting per day. With every hour of sitting each day, there was an observed decrease in brain thickness, according to the study.
And although the study found no significant correlations between physical activity levels and thickness of the medial temporal lobe, the researchers said in the statement that "reducing sedentary behavior may be a possible target for interventions designed to improve brain health in people at risk for Alzheimer's disease."
The researchers noted that the study didn't prove that sitting led to thinner brain structures, but instead found an association between sitting for long periods of time and thinning structures.
In addition, thefindings are preliminary, and although the studyfocused on hours spent sitting, it did not take into consideration whether participants took breaks during long stretches of sedentary behavior. This, researchers said, could be a limitation of their results.
Going forward, the researchers said they plan to survey people that sit for longer periods of time each day, in order to determine if sitting causes the observed thinning. They would also like to explore the role gender, weight and race play in the effect on brain health to sitting, according to the statement.
Originally published on Live Science.
This Creepy Fish Packs 'Switchblades' in Its Face and Could Kill You with Its Venom
The Most Interesting Science News Articles of the Week
Amazing Images: The Best Science Photos of the Week
These Hellish Storms on Jupiter Are Mesmerizing to Watch
You Could Drink This Man's Frostbitten, Amputated Toes in a Cocktail
Copyright © All Rights Reserved.
If you want to take a good stroll down memory lane, new research suggests you'd better get out of that chair more often.
In a first-of-its-kind study, researchers have found that in people middle-aged and older, a brain structure that is key to learning and memory is plumpest in those who spend the most time standing up and moving. At every age, prolonged sitters show less thickness in the medial temporal lobe and the subregions that make it up, the study found.
The prospect of thinning in the brain's medial temporal lobe should spark plenty of worry.
Some loss of volume in this region occurs naturally as we age, and the result is poorer episodic memory — the kind which brings to mind events in one's past.
But shrinkage of the brain and its memory centers becomes particularly pronounced in dementia, and thinning of the cortex probably contributes to that. Even before Alzheimer's disease steals memories, the condition begins to change the density and volume of the hippocampus and the entorhinal cortex, memory-making structures that lie at the heart of the medial temporal lobe.
The findings are based on interviews and tests of 35 cognitively healthy people between the ages of 45 and 75. Researchers at UCLA's Semel Institute and its Center for Cognitive Neurosciences queried the volunteers about their physical activity patterns and scanned their brains in an MRI. Then they gauged how self-reported sitting time or physical activity levels corresponded to thickness in these critical brain structures.
The study subjects reported average sitting times of three to 15 hours a day. After adjusting for their subjects' ages, the researchers found that every additional hour of average daily sitting was associated with a 2% decrease in the thickness of the medial temporal lobe.
The research suggests that, compared to a person who sits for 10 hours a day, someone of the same age who typically sits for 15 hours would have a medial temporal lobe that's 10% thinner.
And that, said study leader Prabha Siddarth, represents a lot of missing brain.
Neuroscientists frequently measure the brain's volume. But examining variations in the thickness of a particular structure is a more revealing way to look at differences among individuals, said Siddarth, a biostatistician and quantum chemist at UCLA.
Imagine that you are removing the cortex of the brain, smoothing out its many folds (or sulci) and laying it flat on a table to measure its depth (which, in the medial temporal lobe, typically ranges from 2 to 3 millimeters, about the thickness of a pencil lead).
Now, take that flattened brain tissue, fold it back up and pop it into place. That will help you appreciate that a 10% increase in thickness will translate into a structure that's more densely packed with brain cells and the connections that lash them together.
The study did not find any correlation between subjects' exercise habits and the thickness of either their medial temporal lobe or its constituent structures. That surprised the researchers, since other work has found that brain volume is generally greater — and cognitive performance is better — in people who work out more.
Siddarth cautioned that this negative finding should not be reassuring to couch potatoes. Indeed, it suggests that for inveterate sitters, even regular bouts of intensive exercise will not undo the damage.
"Of course, we need larger samples and better ways to measure patterns of sedentary behavior," Siddarth said. "But if you're sitting for long periods of time, it seems that that factor — not physical activity — becomes the more harmful or more significant measure of your fitness. Even for people who are physically active, sitting a lot seems to be bad for your brain."
That's consistent with studies of sitting's effects on such health measures as heart disease, diabetes and mortality, she said. "Now we're finding it in brain atrophy," she added.
The results were published this week in the journal PLOS One.
While the new study sheds no light on why long periods of sitting might thin the brain's memory structures, there may be clues in other studies that have looked at sitting's influence on metabolic function and blood vessel health.
The brain, of course, relies on adequate supplies of oxygen and nutrients to maintain itself and resist the depredations of aging. If sitting too long is compromising those supplies, then it stands to reason that our delicate cortical structures will have trouble maintaining the volume and density they had when we were young, Siddarth said.
For those looking to keep their brains plump and their memories sharp, Siddarth said the message is clear: Get up. Pace while talking on the phone, dance with your headphones on, take a walk at lunch. And if you're at a computer all day, set hourly alarms that remind you to stand and march around.
melissa.healy@latimes.com
@LATMelissaHealy
MORE IN SCIENCE
Singing tail feathers and a high speed dive help this hummingbird find a mate
A personalized vaccine helps patients fight back against ovarian cancer
Bad news for night owls. Their risk of early death is 10% higher than for early risers, study finds
follow Dictionary.com
And it might be what Islamists complain about while sitting in their caves.
And there are these three or four very mean Mexicans sitting next to us.
I couldn't have imagined that I would actually be sitting with him, coincidentally at age 30, discussing the same issue.
Both impart the experience of sitting with brilliant Cubans over a rum to debate the State of Cuban Intellectual Life.
So I’m sitting with my daughter and all of her friends—who are 13—and she says ‘Dad, can I be honest with you?
"But his sitting there eating in that—that shirt—" said his sister.
Mrs. Rushton was sitting at her work, in rather a disconsolate frame of mind.
His nephew, with his coat stripped off, was sitting on the side of the bed.
“Would that you had been with us,” said Ambrose, sitting down beside him on the step.
She's sitting up nights to corner all the Amalgamated Hard-luck on the island.
See sitting meditation
early 13c., verbal noun from sit (v.). Meaning "a meeting of a body" is from c.1400. Meaning "interval during which one sits" (for some purpose, especially to have one's portrait taken) is from 1706. Sitting-room first recorded 1771. Slang sitting duck "easy target" first recorded 1944; literal sense is from 1867 (it is considered not sporting to shoot at one).
Old English sittan "to occupy a seat, be seated, sit down, seat oneself; remain, continue; settle, encamp, occupy; lie in wait; besiege" (class V strong verb; past tense sæt, past participle seten), from Proto-Germanic *setjan (cf. Old Saxon sittian, Old Norse sitja, Danish sidde, Old Frisian sitta, Middle Dutch sitten, Dutch zitten, Old High German sizzan, German sitzen, Gothic sitan), from PIE root *sed- (1) "to sit" (see sedentary). With past tense sat, formerly also set, now restricted to dialect, and sate, now archaic; and past participle sat, formerly sitten. In reference to a legislative assembly, from 1510s. Meaning "to baby-sit" is recorded from 1966. To sit back "be inactive" is from 1943. To sit on one's hands was originally "to withhold applause" (1926); later, "to do nothing" (1959). To sit around "be idle, do nothing" is 1915, American English. To sit out "not take part" is from 1650s. Sitting pretty is from 1916.
verb
To take care of; attend and watch over: Who'll sit your house while you're gone? (1945+)
Related Terms
baby-sit, house-sit
Sitting at a desk all day or spending hours watching television may damage the brain in a way which is known to increase the risk of dementia, a new study suggests.
While researchers have known for some time that sedentary behaviour is bad for physical health, raising the risk of heart disease, diabetes and early death, it is the first study to show it could also influence mental wellbeing.
Scientists at the University of California recruited 35 people aged between 45 and 65 and questioned them about how many hours per day they spent sitting down over the previous week.
Each then underwent a brain scan to specifically look an area known as the medial temporal lobe which is crucial to the formation of new memories.
They found that people who reported more sitting had thinner brain structures. Although the researchers say they cannot say for sure that the sedentary behaviour is responsible for the thinning, they are now launching long term studies to find out if the link is causal.
Thinning of the medial temporal lobe can be an early sign of cognitive decline and dementia in middle-aged and older adults.
The researchers say that getting up and moving about could be a good way to prevent dementia of Alzheimer’s disease.
Around 850,000 people are currently living with dementia in Britain with the figure expected to soar in coming years as the population ages.
The research was published in the journal Plos One.
© Telegraph Media Group Limited 2018
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future.
Thank you for your support.
Need help?
Click here for instructions
Sitting too much is linked to changes in a section of the brain that is critical for memory, according to a preliminary study by UCLA researchers of middle-aged and older adults.
Studies show that too much sitting, like smoking, increases the risk of heart disease, diabetes and premature death. Researchers at UCLA wanted to see how sedentary behavior influences brain health, especially regions of the brain that are critical to memory formation.
UCLA researchers recruited 35 people ages 45 to 75 and asked about their physical activity levels and the average number of hours per day they spent sitting over the previous week. Each person had a high-resolution MRI scan, which provides a detailed look at the medial temporal lobe, or MTL, a brain region involved in the formation of new memories.
The researchers found that sedentary behavior is a significant predictor of thinning of the MTL and that physical activity, even at high levels, is insufficient to offset the harmful effects of sitting for extended periods.
This study does not prove that too much sitting causes thinner brain structures, but instead that more hours spent sitting are associated with thinner regions, researchers said. In addition, the researchers focused on the hours spent sitting, but did not ask participants if they took breaks during this time.
The researchers next hope to follow a group of people for a longer duration to determine if sitting causes the thinning and what role gender, race, and weight might play in brain health related to sitting.
MTL thinning can be a precursor to cognitive decline and dementia in middle-aged and older adults. Reducing sedentary behavior may be a possible target for interventions designed to improve brain health in people at risk for Alzheimer's disease, researchers said.
Story Source:
Materials provided by University of California - Los Angeles. Note: Content may be edited for style and length.
Cite This Page:
Get the latest science news with ScienceDaily's free email newsletters, updated daily and weekly. Or view hourly updated newsfeeds in your RSS reader:
Keep up to date with the latest news from ScienceDaily via social networks:
Tell us what you think of ScienceDaily -- we welcome both positive and negative comments. Have any problems using the site? Questions?
GET BREAKING NEWS UPDATES
Get our instant notifications as news happens
You can manage them anytime using browser settings
Not only can sitting lead to diabetes and heart disease, leading a sedentary life is rough on the brain as well.
The act of being in a seated position is now being linked to changes in the region of the brain responsible for memory, according to researchers at the University of California Los Angeles.
In the study, published Thursday in the journal PLOS One, comprised of adults age 45 to 75, the participants each had a brain MRI and were asked questions about their levels of activity and the average number of hours they spent sitting in a week.
The researchers found that the patients who sat "too much" — anywhere from three to seven hours per day — had a noticeable thinning of the MTL (medial temporal lobe), where new memories are formed. They also saw the same results among patients who were physically active — meaning that the damage done by sitting for extended periods of time could not be offset by exercise.
Paralyzed man feels 'pinching, squeezing' after brain stimulation
A thinned MTL is typically a predecessor for dementia and marked cognitive declines in middle-aged to older people, the study said.
The next stage of the research will be to follow volunteers for longer than a week to see if the results are consistent and if gender, race or weight comes into play. The study said that limiting the number of hours spent sitting could become a recommendation from doctors for their patients at risk of developing Alzheimer's and dementia.
Sign up now to start receiving breaking news alerts on your desktop.
Gain access to thousands of additional definitions and advanced search features—ad free! JOIN NOW
An Encyclopædia Britannica Company
lowlife 'a person of low moral character'
kakistocracy 'government by the worst people'
slimeball 'a morally repulsive or odious person'
salacious 'arousing or appealing to sexual desire'
oligarch 'government in which a small group exercises control'

See sitting defined for English-language learners
See sitting defined for kids
I got through the book in one sitting.
He finished the portrait in one sitting.
We'll eat at the second sitting.
We have reservations for the 5:30 sitting.

These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'sitting.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.
13th century
See sitting defined for English-language learners
a sitting member of Parliament
These example sentences are selected automatically from various online news sources to reflect current usage of the word 'sitting.' Views expressed in the examples do not represent the opinion of Merriam-Webster or its editors. Send us feedback.
15th century
: a period of time during which someone sits and does a particular activity
: a period of time when a person poses for a portrait or photograph
: a time when a meal is served to a number of people at the same time
: currently holding an office
: used in or for sitting
: easily hit
See words that rhyme with sitting Spanish Central: Translation of sitting Nglish: Translation of sitting for Spanish speakers Britannica English: Translation of sitting for Arabic speakers
What made you want to look up sitting? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible).
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
marked by compact precise expression
Get Word of the Day daily email!
lowlife 'a person of low moral character'
kakistocracy 'government by the worst people'
slimeball 'a morally repulsive or odious person'
salacious 'arousing or appealing to sexual desire'
oligarch 'government in which a small group exercises control'
More Confusing Words—Quiz
Test your knowledge - and maybe learn something along the way.
Test Your Knowledge - and learn some interesting things along the way.
Subscribe to America's largest dictionary and get thousands more definitions and advanced search—ad free!
Shouldn't be hard to comprehend.
Theories from there to back again
'POS' means "part of speech," obviously
Don't set a precedence.
How we chose 'feminism'
Or, Why Pig Meat is Called 'Pork' and Cow Meat is Called 'Beef'
How to use a word that (literally) drives some people nuts.
The awkward case of 'his or her'
How many of these commonly confused words do you know?
It's all fun and games until someone beats your high score.
Test your knowledge - and maybe learn something along the way.
SCRABBLE® fans, sharpen your skills!
Learn a new word every day. Delivered to your inbox!
OTHER MERRIAM-WEBSTER DICTIONARIES
FOLLOW US
© 2018 Merriam-Webster, Incorporated
